Michael F. Fahey III is a retired United States Marine Corps major general who last served as the Commanding General of the 4th Marine Division from October 2020 to June 2022. Previously, he served as the Commander of the Marine Corps Forces South from August 2018 to September 2020.
Media related to Michael F. Fahey III at Wikimedia Commons
This article incorporates public domain material from websites or documents of the United States government.
The Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Depot in Ronceverte, West Virginia is a historic train station built in 1915 and is part of the Ronceverte Historic District. The depot stopped serving to passengers when Amtrak started operation on May 1, 1971, and discontinued services to the station, although the line still has the Cardinal using the route. Currently, the depot serves as an office for CSX, the latter of which is restoring the station at the cost of $500,000.
Ronceverte was welcomed by railroad services on January 28, 1873, when the C&O Main Line between White Sulphur Springs and Huntington was completed. During the early 20th Century, Ronceverte became an important commercial center in the Greenbrier Valley. This led to a growth in population in the town along with businesses.
The first depot was built in 1891, with 12,518 passengers being ticketed through the station along with 27,870 tons of freight being shipped through the station in the 1890s. In 1899, the C&O built a branch line from Ronceverte up to Cass and Durbin for use in the logging industry up in these towns. In 1906, the station had 42,780 passengers ticketing through the station and billed out 37,927 tons of freight.
Owing to the increasing ridership at Ronceverte, the 1891 depot reached near-capacity, necessitating the construction of a new depot. Consequently, the C&O presented blueprints for the new depot to the town on May 2, 1910.The council appointed Ronceverte Mayor J. A. Jackson, S. L. Jackson and Powhatan Alexander “P.A.” George as a committee to assist with this project. A new location was proposed for the use of 10 feet of Rail Road Avenue north side between Pine and Chestnut Street for depot purposes and new passenger station. On June 10, 1913, the city council authorized the mayor and city clerk to execute contracts in conformity therewith, when the C&O Railway Company should agree to act as agent for the city of Ronceverte in constructing the two railroad bridges, and should further state when and where the new passenger station should be erected. Original plans were for a wooden structure, but plans changed for the station to be built in brick craftsman style. With the plans finalized, the current American Craftsman style station opened in 1915, with more than 65,000 passengers passing through its doors in the first year it was built.
When the depot opened in 1915, there was a total of 12 trains serving the station. That being six through and local trains on the main line and four trains on the Greenbrier Branch. In the 1930s passenger trains on the Greenbrier Branch were replaced by gasoline powered Doodlebugs, which lasted until 1958. Although the George Washington did not stop at Ronceverte when it was inaugurated in 1932, it did stop at Ronceverte in its final years after the Fast Flying Virginian was discontinued in 1968.
By 1944, only ten trains were serving the station compared to 12 before 1930. This dropped to four trains by 1958, after passenger service on the Greenbrier Branch was discontinued. In 1962, two of the four trains were discontinued, leaving only the FFV serving Ronceverte until was discontinued in 1968 and the George Washington now stopping at Ronceverte.
The final blow came on May 1, 1971, when Amtrak took over all passenger operations in the United States, and chose not to serve Ronceverte, despite retaining the George Washington and merging it with the James Whitcomb Riley. The George Washington itself lost its name in 1974 after merging with the James Whitcomb Riley. The Riley itself would become the Cardinal in 1977, which still uses the route to this day, although not stopping at Ronceverte. Nearest passenger stations that are being served on the C&O Main by the Cardinal include Alderson which is 13 miles away and White Sulphur Springs which is 13.5 miles away.
Currently, the depot is used by CSX as an office for its employees. CSX also has started a $500,000 project on restoring the station, which is 107 years old. The depot itself has also hosted a one-of-a-kind train show on May 7, 2022, called The Red Matheny Train show which highlights railroad history in the county and its connections to Ronceverte. The show itself is named after Jim “Red” Matheny, who was a key figure in building the C&O railroad, while he worked at the Ronceverte train station. The event itself had local vendors, model train displays and layouts, and concessions which lasted from 9:00 AM to 4:00 PM for a total of 7 hours.
Greenbrier Branch Line Service (ended 1958)
Bellshill railway station served the town of Bellshill, North Lanarkshire, Scotland, from 1879 to 1951 on the Glasgow, Bothwell, Hamilton and Coatbridge Railway.
The station was opened on 1 May 1879 by the North British Railway. It closed on 1 January 1917 but reopened on 2 June 1919, before closing permanently on 10 September 1951.
Karen Kahler is an American actress and voice actress. In 1985, she graduated from Yale University with her bachelor's degree in Geology.
Party Like the Rich and Famous - Party Guest
Anna's Quest: Volume 1 - Winfriede's Tower - Narrator
Heroes of Newerth - Phoenix Ra/Clockwork Archer
Malevolence: The Sword of Ahkranox - Female Hero/Elder God
Shadow Wolf Mysteries 2: Bane of the Family
Wing Commander Saga - Jessica Wagner/Various Characters
Rumundaka Wonodi (born 30 September 1967) is a Nigerian energy sector professional. He served as the inaugural managing director and chief executive officer of Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc (NBET) from 2011 to 2016.
Wonodi was born on Hospital Road, Port Harcourt, Nigeria. He obtained a bachelor’s degree in civil engineering from the University of Benin and a Master of Business Administration from the Yale School of Management. At Yale, he was a J. Olin Research Fellow, focusing on power and natural gas markets in the United States.
Wonodi worked as a director in the Origination Team at Constellation Energy Commodities Group, based in Baltimore, Maryland. In that role, he was involved in transactions in North American gas and power markets, including PJM, NYISO, MISO, the Southern Pool, and NEPOOL.
In October 2010, he joined the Presidential Task Force on Power (PTFP), where he led the Regulatory and Transactions Monitoring Team supporting the privatization of Nigeria’s electricity sector. He worked with the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) and the PTFP to establish Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc, a special purpose vehicle created to purchase electricity from generation companies and sell it to distribution companies.
In August 2011, Wonodi was appointed by President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan as the inaugural managing director and chief executive officer of NBET. During his tenure, NBET negotiated Nigeria’s first greenfield power purchase agreement, which supported the development of the 450-megawatt Azura Independent Power Project.
After leaving NBET, Wonodi founded ZKJ Energy Partners, an energy advisory, investment, and power development firm. He has also served on the advisory boards of PUTTRU and Geometric Power’s APL Electric Company Limited.
Benjamin Crisp (11 May 1808 – 2 September 1901) was a New Zealand temperance advocate.
Crisp was born in London on or about 11 May 1808; his parents were Benjamin Crisp, a tinsmith, and his wife, Sophia.
In 1819, when he was 11, he travelled to Hobart. After living in Hobart, Adelaide, and Sydney and working as a whaler, a farm worker, and a bullock driver, in 1837 he left Australia for New Zealand, where he again worked as a whaler and then became a boatman at Port Nicholson. In 1842 he moved to Port Nelson, where he went into business with Sam Phelps, using a bullock cart to carry immigrants' luggage into town from the port. The two earned enough to work only in the mornings; they spent the afternoons drinking, then slept off the effects under the cart. On one occasion Crisp was so drunk, he walked off the wharf thinking he was on a bridge. Crisp was one of the earliest settlers in Nelson and trained the first pair of bullocks used as draught animals in the area. He was later employed as a carter by local businesses.
Alfred Saunders, the founder of the Nelson Temperance Society, preached temperance from Phelps' and Crisp's cart on Sundays. In June 1843, Crisp decided to renounce alcohol and visited Saunders at 4 a.m. to sign the temperance pledge. He became an important spokesperson for the movement, founded a Band of Hope for the local children that drew 500 to welcome important visitors to Nelson, and organised a popular annual children's event on Queen Victoria's birthday. He also taught Sunday school at the Wesleyan church.
On the Queen's Diamond Jubilee in 1887, Crisp was awarded a gold medal and 60 sovereigns.
Crisp married Elizabeth Burnett on 14 December 1846; they had five sons and five daughters, whom Crisp brought to temperance meetings to display how they were thriving in a sober home. He died in Nelson on 2 September 1901, aged 93, after injuring his back in a fall, and was given a public funeral. His headstone is inscribed: "Erected by the Nelson citizens in memory of Ben Crisp who was the children's friend".
John Enderby Jackson (14 January 1827 – 10 April 1903) was an English musician, composer, and the self-described founder of the British brass band competition and the cheap day railway excursion.
After training in the family business of candle-making and soap boiling, Jackson became involved in music and learned a variety of instruments. He proceeded to join a dance band, where he witnessed an early brass band competition. In 1851 he arranged a contest in Kingston upon Hull, but his first success came in 1853 at Manchester's Belle Vue Zoological Gardens, where he helped organise a successful contest of brass bands. He began writing test pieces and in 1860 was approached to run a competition at The Crystal Palace in London. This event proved highly successful, and ran annually until 1863.
Following the Crystal Palace contests, he toured the world with a variety of groups and acts, acting both as a manager and musical director. He then retired to Scarborough to paint and write articles on music, and eventually died on Good Friday, 1903. In his articles, he stated that his mission throughout his life was "the propagation of music amongst the working classes".
Jackson was born in the Mytongate area of Kingston upon Hull. His father, John Jackson, was from a line of tallow chandlers and soap boilers. His mother died during his childhood. He attended Hull Grammar School and received private music tuition alongside it, becoming proficient on the flute, French horn, and piano. He showed strength as a singer, and had a general knowledge of harmony and composition.
As a child, Jackson assisted his father's candle business. He later claimed to have watched Louis Jullien's extravagant and talented orchestra perform while placing candles in Hull's Theatre Royal, which inspired him to leave the family business and focus on music instead.
He made his first public performance on the trumpet at the age of nine in the band of brothers Thomas and John Martin. At eighteen, he was playing the flute in the Quadrille Band at Burton Constable Hall. While playing at a pageant in the hall, he witnessed "an afternoon's rivalry of brass bands", being a minor competition between groups.
While there is minor evidence of small brass band contests prior to Jackson, it is believed that the modern form is traced to his actions. Alongside the performance at Burton Constable, his idea of brass band contests came from watching the large crowds at competitive agricultural events, and considering the idea that competition could be mixed with entertainment to gain even more of an audience.
In the summer of 1851, Jackson held his first contest in Hull. While the number of brass bands in the country had increased throughout the 1840s, most of the bands at this first contest did not exist until December 1850: he spent a lot of time encouraging locals to form bands and compete. As the players had little-to-no musical knowledge or experience, the performances at this first contest were often inadequate.
Jackson's first "Open Brass Band Contest" was held at Manchester's Belle Vue Zoological Gardens in 1853, organised in part with bandsmen James Melling and Tallis Trimmel. Held in the open-air, reports state that 14–16,000 people were in attendance.
He composed Yorkshire Waltzes as a test piece for the Grand Brass Band Contest at Hull's Zoological Gardens on 30 June 1856. He later wrote Venetian Waltz for a contest in Sheffield in June 1858, referred to by the Sheffield Independent as "really a difficult piece of music".
In August 1859, a brass band contest was held by Jackson in Leicester. The event was held alongside fireworks and archery displays, and trains were run from across the Midlands for attendants. Another contest was held in Wolverhampton on Whit Monday in 1862, held alongside an intellect contest among other attractions.
In 1858, Jackson held a successful handbell-ringing competition at The Crystal Palace in London; he had been approached by its manager Robert Kanzow Bowley to bring together twelve teams from Lancashire and Yorkshire. Following this, he was engaged in 1859 to hold a brass band contest there the following summer. The 1860 Crystal Palace event was split into two contests on consecutive days: each had six preliminary rounds held around the grounds, with the finals taking place in the concert pavilion. Winning bands were given trophies, a cash prize of between £5 and £40, sets of music journals, and instruments worth up to £35; the best soloists were also given new instruments. Each day finished with a mass concert, performed by almost 1,400 of the contestants: the performance contained Handel's Hallelujah Chorus, Mendelssohn's Wedding March, and Haydn's The Heavens Are Telling, Rule, Britannia!, and God Save the Queen. These performances were conducted by Jackson.
In order to judge the competition, an eighteen-person adjudicating panel was organised with Jackson as the referee. The panel was largely formed of military musical directors, including: Dan and Charles Godfrey (Grenadier Guards), Charles Boosé (Royal Horse Guards), Jacob Kappey (Royal Marines), Smyth (Royal Artillery), and Hartman (10th Hussars).
Jackson's strong sense of organisation and logistics is evident within this event. He had compiled information on each band from their entry forms, including their identity, recent history, musical configuration and style, and the means by which they would travel to Sydenham. On the day before the contest, representatives from each band assembled in the Exeter Hall to be briefed on proceedings and pick lots for the order of play.
The first day's event was called the National Contest and was open to any band (it was marketed as being for "Amateur, Yeomanry, or Rifle Corps bands"). Forty-four bands entered the contest, and the winners were the Black Dyke Mills Band from Queensbury, West Yorkshire.
The second event was called the Sydenham Amateur Contest and was open to bands that had not won a competition prize of more than £20 during the previous year: seventy bands entered. On this day, bands were to play two pieces: one of their own choosing, and a set of quadrilles composed and arranged by Jackson himself. The winners were Robert Thompson Crawshay's Cyfarthfa Band from Merthyr Tydfil in Wales, who played an arrangement of the overture to Verdi's opera Nabucco. The band entered both days' contests, as many others seem to have done.
Admission prices for spectators was a half crown on the first day, with The Morning Chronicle estimating that 7,000 people attended. The second day was cheaper at a shilling, with The Times estimating that a considerably higher 22,000 were in attendance.
The contests were held annually until 1863 with the final two contests containing only one event. The 1861 event saw a solo competition for bass players, which was won by a performer from the Keighley band: he was given a sonorophone E-flat contrabass as a prize. While most other winners had come from the North, 1863 winner came from Blandford in Dorset; the set test piece for that year was a selection from Verdi's opera La forza del destino arranged by J. Smyth. The growing success of other contests saw the decline of Jackson's Crystal Palace contests, with only 21 bands competing in the final year, perhaps explaining why no more Jackson contests were held there. The next brass band contest held there was in 1900, arranged by John Henry Iles and renamed "The National Brass Band Championship".
Jackson had arranged for another contest to take place in London in 1864 between musicians from France and England, but the plans did not come to fruition.
The top three results for each of the contests are as follows:
Jackson believed in the need to entertain, and his contests were often accompanied by sideshows and hot air balloon ascents. He negotiated with railway companies to secure special arrangements for bands attending his contests; he paid the rail companies directly with the bands' entry fees. He also managed to secure cheaper fares for the supporters of bands, taking advantage of the railway industry's potential in the entertainment business.
Following the Crystal Palace contests, Jackson began touring with his own group: "Enderby Jackson's London Star Company Comique". In September 1871, he began a three-year tour of Australia, New Zealand, and South Africa. He had the opportunity to remain in the country as manager of Melbourne's Opera House, but was unable to due to ill health. After his tour, he took over an 1875 tour by the Billingtons, a husband and wife performing in plays together. Two years later, he brought an Italian concert band to the United Kingdom and toured its principal towns.
In 1878, he managed a European tour for Patrick Gilmore's American band. This tour took him to Belgium, France, and many British towns. Following the tour, he effectively retired from managing bands and settled down in Scarborough to paint and write. During the 1890s, Jackson published a series of articles in the magazine Musical Opinion, and in 1891 he proposed plans to join Scarborough's North and South Bay.
On 18 January 1860, he married Eliza S. Smith (1837–1909) of Nettleham in Lincolnshire. They had four children, including at least one son, H. E. Jackson.
On 9 April 1903, he suffered a brain haemorrhage at his home in Scarborough. He died either that day, or the next (Good Friday). He was buried in the town's Manor Road cemetery.
The 2006 Virginia Cavaliers football team represented the University of Virginia in the 2006 NCAA Division I FBS football season. The team's head coach was Al Groh. They played their home games at Scott Stadium in Charlottesville, Virginia.
The Mitchell Micropolitan Statistical Area, as defined by the United States Census Bureau, is an area consisting of two counties in South Dakota, anchored by the city of Mitchell. As of the 2000 census, the μSA had a population of 21,880 (though a July 1, 2009 estimate placed the population at 22,482).
As of the census of 2000, there were 21,880 people, 8,700 households, and 5,618 families residing within the μSA. The racial makeup of the μSA was 96.70% White, 0.23% African American, 1.71% Native American, 0.38% Asian, 0.02% Pacific Islander, 0.26% from other races, and 0.69% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.61% of the population.
The median income for a household in the μSA was $33,263, and the median income for a family was $41,929. Males had a median income of $28,969 versus $20,578 for females. The per capita income for the μSA was $16,329.
Stan Allen (born 1956) is an American architect, theorist and former dean of Princeton University School of Architecture.
He received a B.A. from Brown University, a B.Arch. from Cooper Union and an M.Arch. from Princeton University. He has worked in the offices of Richard Meier and Rafael Moneo, and was formerly the director, with landscape architect James Corner at Field Operations. The work of this interdisciplinary collaboration was recognized with first prizes in invited competitions for the re-use of Fresh Kills in Staten Island (2001), and the Arroyo Parkway in Pasadena, California (2002). His practice, Stan Allen Architect, is based in New York City.
Prior to his move to Princeton in 2002, Allen directed the AAD (Advanced Architectural Design) Program at Columbia Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation. In 2012, Allen was elected into the National Academy of Design.
His urban projects have been published in Points and Lines: Diagrams and Projects for the City (New York: Princeton Architectural Press, 1999, reissued in 2004) and his theoretical essays in Practice: Architecture, Technique and Representation, reissued in 2008 by Routledge. Landform Building: Architecture’s New Terrain, a 450 page book based on the conference held at the School in 2009, was published by Lars Muller in 2011.
2004 Taichung Shuinan Economic and Trade Park, Taiwan
2006-08 Christ's Church of the Valley (CCV) Chapel, Tagaytay, Philippines
1999 Points + Lines: Diagrams and Projects for the City, Princeton Architectural Press
2013 "Stan Allen by Nader Tehrani", BOMB Magazine
Jackson Lafferty (born October 9, 1969) is a Canadian and former territorial-level politician and current Grand Chief of the Tłı̨chǫ Government.
Lafferty attended Sir John Franklin High School in Yellowknife, Northwest Territories. He received his post-secondary education at Red Deer College and the University of Lethbridge, completed a Management Degree at Athabasca University. He also complete the Executive Leadership program through the Banff School of Management.
Lafferty ran for a seat in the Northwest Territories Legislature in a by-election held in the electoral district of North Slave on July 15, 2005. He won the by-election in a closely contested race over two other candidates.
He defeated former North Slave MLA Henry Zoe in the 2007 Northwest Territories general election. He was elected to cabinet by his colleagues in the Legislative Assembly. Premier Floyd Roland appointed him Minister of Education, Culture and Employment, as well as Minister of Justice.
Lafferty was re-elected to the 17th Assembly in 2011. During the 17th Legislative Assembly, Lafferty was the Deputy Premier, Minister of Education, Culture and Employment, Minister Responsible for Official Languages, and Minister Responsible for the Workers’ Safety and Compensation Commission.
Lafferty was acclaimed to the 18th Legislative Assembly in November 2015, and was elected by his peers to be the Speaker of the 18th Legislative Assembly. He was acclaimed to the 19th Northwest Territories Legislative Assembly in October 2019 representing the constituency of Monfwi.
Lafferty resigned his position on June 4, 2021 and announced his intention to run for Tłı̨chǫ Grand Chief later that year.
Jackson Lafferty biography Archived 2018-05-08 at the Wayback Machine
Southern Iran consists of the southern mountain ranges of Zagros and Central Iranian Range, Khuzestan Plain and the northern coasts of Persian Gulf and Strait of Hormuz.
It includes the provinces of Fars (Persia), Kohgiluyeh and Buyer Ahmad, Hormozgan, and Bushehr. Sometimes Khuzestan and Kerman are also included in this region. The major cities in the region are Shiraz, Bandarabbas, and Kerman.
The south of Iran is very diverse in terms of ethnicity, which includes Persians (including Kohmereh, Basseri, Achomi, etc.), Arabs and Iranians of African origin. In addition, other ethnic minorities of Iran migrated to this region for various reasons; these include Azerbaijanis, Mazandaranis, Gilaks, Talysh, Tats, Kurds, and Lurs, who migrated from other regions of Iran.
Hot desert climate (BWh) in the plains and the coast of the Persian Gulf.
Cold semi-arid climate (BSk) in the mountain ranges.
The 2022 Australia Cup was the ninth season of the Australia Cup, the main national soccer knockout cup competition in Australia. This edition was the first under the new name of the "Australia Cup" following the renaming of Football Federation Australia to Football Australia. Thirty-two teams contested the competition proper.
Melbourne Victory were the defending champions but were eliminated by Western United in the Round of 32. Macarthur FC won the first trophy in their history after defeating Sydney United 58 in the final. Sydney United 58 was the first member federation club to qualify for the Australia Cup final, with the Australia Cup final also being the first to feature two teams of the same state.
The 2022 edition was the first in which the winners qualified for the AFC Cup. Macarthur FC competed in the 2023–24 edition, reaching the ASEAN zonal final before being defeated by Central Coast Mariners.
A total of 32 teams will participate in the 2022 Australia Cup competition proper.
A-League Men clubs represent the highest level in the Australian league system, whereas Member Federation clubs come from level 2 and below.
The prize fund has been unchanged since 2015, though this is the first year the winner will also benefit from participating in the 2023–24 AFC Cup.
Member federation teams are competing in various state-based preliminary rounds to win one of 22 places in the competition proper (at the Round of 32). All Australian clubs (other than youth teams associated with A-League franchises) are eligible to enter the qualifying process through their respective member federation; however, only one team per club is permitted entry into the competition. The preliminary rounds operate within a consistent national structure whereby club entry into the competition is staggered in each state/territory, determined by what level the club sits at in the Australian soccer league system. This ultimately leads to round 7 with the winning clubs from that round entering directly into the round of 32.
As there was no NPL Champion in the previous year, an additional slot was allocated to Victoria for this edition only.
The top eight placed A-League Men clubs from the 2021–22 A-League Men season gained automatic qualification to the Round of 32. The remaining four teams entered a play-off series to determine the remaining two positions.
The round of 32 draw took place on 29 June 2022. The lowest ranked side that qualified for this round was Wollongong United. They were the only level 6 team left in the competition.
Times are AEST (UTC+10), as listed by Football Australia (local times, if different, are in parentheses).
The round of 16 draw took place on 3 August 2022. The lowest ranked side that qualified for this round was Modbury Jets. They were the only level 3 team left in the competition.
Times are AEST (UTC+10), as listed by Football Australia (local times, if different, are in parentheses).
The quarter-finals draw took place on 17 August 2022. The lowest ranked sides that qualified for this round were Oakleigh Cannons, Peninsula Power and Sydney United 58. They were the only level 2 teams left in the competition.
Times are AEST (UTC+10), as listed by Football Australia (local times, if different, are in parentheses).
The semi-finals draw took place on 31 August 2022. The lowest ranked sides that qualified for this round were Oakleigh Cannons and Sydney United 58. They were the only level 2 teams left in the competition.
Note: Goals scored in preliminary rounds not included.
Matches were broadcast through 10 Play and the final was shown live on Network 10.
Sydney United 58 FC at the 2022 Australia Cup
Hot Country Songs is a chart that ranks the top-performing country music songs in the United States, published by Billboard magazine. In 1988, 49 different songs topped the chart, then published under the title Hot Country Singles, in 53 issues of the magazine, based on playlists submitted by country music radio stations and sales reports submitted by stores.
Only four songs spent more than a single week at number one in 1988: "Eighteen Wheels and a Dozen Roses" by Kathy Mattea, "I Told You So" by Randy Travis, "I'll Leave This World Loving You" by Ricky Van Shelton and "When You Say Nothing at All" by Keith Whitley. Travis and Shelton each scored two other number ones during the year to give them a total of four weeks in the top spot. This figure was matched by Rosanne Cash, who achieved three solo number ones and one in collaboration with her then-husband Rodney Crowell, making her the only artist to take four different songs to number one in 1988. Highway 101, Restless Heart, George Strait and Tanya Tucker each topped the chart with three different songs.
Artists to achieve their first chart-topper in 1988 included Dwight Yoakam, who reached number one with "Streets of Bakersfield", performed as a duet with Buck Owens, who had himself had a hit with the song fifteen years earlier. The song marked the veteran singer's first appearance at number one since 1972. The Desert Rose Band achieved the first of its two number ones with "He's Back and I'm Blue", and Paul Overstreet made his first appearance at number one when he collaborated with Tanya Tucker and Paul Davis on "I Won't Take Less Than Your Love". Overstreet achieved intermittent success as a singer but is better known as a songwriter, having written hit songs for many artists. At the other end of the scale, Merle Haggard topped the chart for the 38th and final time with "Twinkle, Twinkle Lucky Star". At the time of Haggard's death in 2016, only Conway Twitty (40) and George Strait (44) had taken more songs to the top of the Hot Country chart since Billboard began compiling sales and airplay into a single listing in 1958. Whitley's "When You Say Nothing at All" was the final number one of the year. Whitley was at the peak of his commercial success at the time, but would die less than six months later, on May 9, 1989.
List of artists who reached number one on the U.S. country chart
Renick William Dunlap (October 21, 1872 – March 2, 1945) was an American agriculturalist and politician.
Dunlap was born in 1872, in Kingston, Ohio. He graduated from Ohio State University in 1895. During his college years, Dunlap played for the Ohio State Buckeyes football team. He was part of the Alpha-Sigma chapter of Ohio State.
Dunlap served in the Ohio Senate from 1903 to 1905. Dunlap became Ohio's Dairy and Food commissioner in 1906. He was a Republican candidate for the 1910 United States Senate election in Ohio, receiving one vote. Dunlap became Ohio's 13th Secretary of Agriculture in 1914, resigning in 1916 at Governor Frank B. Willis's request. Dunlap served in the U.S. Department of Agriculture as an assistant secretary from April 1, 1925, to March 6, 1933. During his time in the position, he was known for enforcing the Pure Food & Drug Act. Dunlap ran in the 1934 United States House of Representatives elections, again as a Republican, for Ohio's 11th congressional district. When he retired from politics, he became a farmer in Ohio.
Dunlap died on March 2, 1945, at age 72 in Chillicothe, Ohio.
His great great grandson, William Renick Reale, is expected to graduate Syracuse University in Spring 2025.
State Road 140 (SR 140) is a State Road in the eastern section of the state of Indiana. Running for about 2.25 miles (3.62 km) in a general north–south direction, connecting rural portions of Rush and Henry counties. SR 140 was originally introduced in 1932 to connect Indiana Soldiers and Sailors Orphans Home to US 40 in Knightstown. The road was paved by the late 1930s.
SR 140 starts in rural Rush County, just south of Hoosier Youth Challenge Academy, as a continuation of Rushville Road (CR 340 W). The state road heads generally towards the northwest, passing through Hoosier Youth Challenge Academy, before crossing the Big Blue River. After the river the road becomes more north–south and enters Henry County and the town of Knightstown. In Knightstown SR 140 follows Jefferson Street, passing through residential properties. SR 140 ends in downtown Knightstown at an intersection between Jefferson Street and Main Street (US 40). Jefferson Street continues north as a city street towards the north side of Knightstown. The highest traffic count is in downtown Knightstown, where 2,536 vehicles travel the highway on average each day. The lowest traffic count is at the southern end of SR 140, where 641 vehicles travel the highway on average each day.
SR 140 was first designated by September 1932. The original routing started at the Indiana Soldiers and Sailors Orphans Home, now Hoosier Youth Challenge Academy, and ran north to US 40 much as it does today. Between 1935 and 1937, SR 140 was reconstructed to be a high level of road, with a hard driving surface. Since its paving, the route has not undergone any major changes.
Ravagers is a 1979 American science fiction action film directed by Richard Compton and based on the 1966 novel Path to Savagery by Robert Edmond Alter. The screenplay concerns survivors of a nuclear holocaust, who do what they can to protect themselves against ravagers, a mutated group of vicious marauders who terrorize the few remaining civilized inhabitants.
In the aftermath of a nuclear holocaust, animal-like creatures known as "the ravagers" roam the earth and kill all survivors. A man named Falk (Richard Harris) witnesses his wife's murder by the creatures. Seeking vengeance, Falk becomes a vigilante.
He joins a small community, led by Rann (Ernest Borgnine), living aboard a ship anchored off shore. The ship is destroyed in an attack by the ravagers. Falk then leads his fellow survivors on a desperate quest for a place where they can live in peace.
The film was shot at the Alabama Space and Rocket Center and at the "Three Caves Quarry" at the base of Monte Sano in Huntsville, Alabama. The Three Caves location is unique because it was one of the first limestone quarries in Alabama and for a brief time in 1962 a possible fallout shelter.
Ravagers is part of a long line of Hollywood-backed post-apocalyptic films from the 1970s, many of which are difficult to find on television or home video. In the UK, the film was released on Betamax and VHS, where Alana Stewart's voice was dubbed by actress Molly Wryn.
The Los Angeles Times called Ravagers "handsomely produced but relentlessly dull... doesn't have enough story to tell."
Behind-the-scenes production photos Collection of Stephen Lodge.
Sukuma wiki is an East African dish made with collard greens, known as sukuma, cooked with onions and spices. It is often served and eaten with ugali (made from maize flour).
In Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda and other parts of East Africa, colewort are more commonly known by their Swahili name, sukuma, and are often referred to as collard greens. It is also commonly mistaken for kale.
The literal translation of the phrase 'sukuma wiki' is to "push the week" or "stretch the week". It is a vegetable that is generally affordable and available all-year round in this region. It forms part of the staple dish in this region together with ugali or sima. Sukuma is also known as "agaar" in the Somali language and is part of Somali culture.
The cultivar group name Acephala ("without a head" in Greek) refers to the fact that this variety of B. oleracea does not have the usual close-knit core of leaves (a "head") like cabbage. The plant is a biennial where winter frost occurs, and perennial in even colder regions. It is also moderately sensitive to salinity. It has an upright stalk, often growing up to two feet tall. The plant is very similar and closely related to kale. The preparation is different from traditional preparation of collard greens in the United States.
The plant is commercially cultivated for its thick, slightly bitter, edible leaves. For best texture, the leaves should be picked before they reach their maximum size, at which stage the leaves will be thicker and should be cooked differently from the new leaves. Age will not affect flavor. Flavor and texture also depend on the cultivar; the couve-manteiga and couve tronchuda are especially appreciated in Brazil and Portugal.
Sukuma wiki has been eaten for at least 2,000 years, with evidence showing that the Ancient Greeks cultivated several forms of both colewort and kale.
In the Congo, Uganda, Tanzania, and Kenya (East Africa), thinly sliced colewort are the main accompaniments of a popular dish known as ugali (also sometimes called sima, sembe or posho), a corn flour cake.
Sukuma wiki is mainly lightly sauteed in oil until tender, flavored with onions and seasoned with salt, which can be served either as the main accompaniment or as a side dish with preferred meat (fish, chicken, beef, pork).
Fresh sukuma wiki leaves can be stored for up to 10 days if refrigerated to just above freezing (1 °C) at high humidity (>95%). In domestic refrigerators, fresh colewort can be stored for about three days. Once cooked, they can be frozen and stored for greater lengths of time.
Media related to Sukuma wiki at Wikimedia Commons
Thomas Runge Martin (born 1947) is an American classicist and philologist who specializes in the history of the Greco-Roman world. He is the Jeremiah W. O'Connor Jr. Chair Professor of Classics at the College of the Holy Cross. Previously, he was the Harris K. Weston Professor of the Humanities at Harvard University from 1983 to 1985 and the Henry E. Sheffield Professor of History at Pomona College from 1991 to 1992.
Martin graduated as valedictorian from Woodrow Wilson High School in Beckley, West Virginia, in 1965. He then attended Princeton University, where he earned a Bachelor of Arts in classics, summa cum laude, in 1970. He then received his M.A. in 1972 and his Ph.D. in 1978 with a specialization in classical philology from Harvard University, all while conducting graduate work at the American School of Classical Studies at Athens between 1973 and 1975.
After receiving his doctorate, Martin became an assistant professor of classics at Harvard University, where he was also the head tutor of the classics from 1978 to 1985. From 1983 to 1985, he was the Harris K. Weston Professor of the Humanities at Harvard University. Afterwards, he moved to Pomona College, where he was an associate professor of classics from 1985 to 1991 and the Henry E. Sheffield Professor of History from 1991 to 1992. He then became the Jeremiah O'Connor Professor in Classics at the College of the Holy Cross in 1992.
His research field covers the history of ancient Greece and Rome and numismatics. He is author and co-author of several publications and articles, among which include Sovereignty and Coinage in Classical Greece (Princeton University Press, 1985), Ancient Greece: From Prehistoric to Hellenistic Times (Yale University Press, 1992), The Making of the West: Peoples and Cultures (Bedford/St. Martin's, 2 vol., 2001) and Herodotus and Sima Qian: The First Great Historians of Greece and China (Bedford/St. Martin's, 2009), all reissued. “Ancient Rome: From Romulus to Justinian” (Yale University Press) was published in 2012. He has contributed to the documentaries produced by The History Channel about Roman history, especially to the series Rome: Rise and Fall of an Empire.
College of the Holy Cross: Thomas R. Martin
Introduction to the Historical Overview in Perseus
President Curtis from Rick and Morty may refer to:
President Curtis (Rick and Morty character), the character from Rick and Morty
President Curtis (TV series), a spin-off of Rick and Morty featuring the character of the same name
Science and technology in Kazakhstan – government policies to develop science, technology and innovation in Kazakhstan.
The Kazakhstan 2030 Strategy was adopted by presidential decree in 1997. Apart from national security and political stability, it focuses on growth based on an open-market economy with a high level of foreign investment, as well as on health, education, energy, transport, communication, infrastructure and professional training.
After the first medium-term implementation plan expired in 2010, Kazakhstan rolled out a second plan to 2020. It focuses on accelerating diversification of the economy through industrialization and infrastructure development; the development of human capital; better social services, including housing; stable international relations; and stable interethnic relations. According to the 2009 census, Kazakhs make up 63% of the population and ethnic Russians 24%. Small minorities (less than 3%) make up the remainder, including Uzbeks, Ukrainians, Belarusians, and Tatars.
Two programmes underpin the Strategic Plan to 2020, the State Programme for Accelerated Industrial and Innovative Development (2011−2020) and the State Programme for Educational Development (2011−2014), both adopted by decree in 2010. The latter is designed to ensure access to quality education and fixes a number of targets. For instance, by 2020:
90% of secondary schools are to be using an e-learning system
52% of teachers are to hold a bachelor's or master's degree
The standard of all secondary schools is to be raised to the level of the country's Nazarabayev Intellectual Schools, which foster critical thinking, autonomous research, a deep analysis of information and proficiency in Kazakh, English, and Russian
By 2016, government scholarships for university students are to increase by 25%
80% of students who complete their degree under a government grant scheme are to be employed in their field of specialization a year after graduation.
The State Programme for Accelerated Industrial and Innovative Development focuses on diversifying the economy and improving Kazakhstan's competitiveness by creating an environment further encouraging industrial development and by developing priority economic sectors, via interaction between the government and business sectors. Kazakhstan's economic priorities to 2020 were agriculture, mining and metallurgical complexes, the energy sector, oil and gas, engineering, information and communication technologies (ICTs), and chemicals and petrochemicals. Targets include:
Raising domestic research spending to 1% of GDP by 2015
Increasing the number of internationally recognized patents to 30
Opening two centers with industrial expertise, three design bureau and four technology parks
Raising the share of non-primary exports to at least 40% of exports by 2014
Raising labor productivity in manufacturing by a factor of no less than 1.5 by 2020
Raising the contribution of the manufacturing sector to at least 12.5% of GDP by 2020.
It is estimated that by 2006, two-thirds of Kazakh firms were privately owned. Prices in Kazakhstan are almost completely market-based and banking and other financial institutions are much better established than elsewhere in the region. The government can dialogue with private enterprises through Atameken, an association of more than 1 000 enterprises from different sectors, and with foreign investors through the Foreign Investors’ Council, set up in 1998. Kazakhstan nevertheless remains attached to state-led capitalism, with state-owned companies remaining dominant in strategic industries. During the 2008 financial crisis, the Kazakh government increased its involvement in the economy, even though it had created a wealth fund, Samruk−Kazyna, the same year to further the privatization of state-controlled businesses.
Samruk−Kazyna resulted from the 2008 merger of two joint stock companies, the Kazakhstan Holding for the Management of State Assets (Samruk) and the Sustainable Development Fund (Kazyna). Samruk−Kazyna is charged with modernizing and diversifying the Kazakh economy by attracting investment to priority economic sectors, fostering regional development and strengthening inter-industry and inter-regional links. Oil and gas represent 60−70% of Kazakh exports. A 2% reduction in oil revenue in 2013, subsequent to a drop in prices, cost the Kazakh economy US$1.2 billion, according to Ruslan Sultanov, Director-General of the Centre for Development of Trade Policy, a joint stock company of the Ministry of the Economy and Budget Planning. More than half (54%) of processed products were exported to Belarus and the Russian Federation in 2013, compared to 44% prior to the adoption of the Customs Union in 2010.
In December 2012, President Nursultan Nazarbayev announced the Kazakhstan 2050 Strategy with the slogan ‘Strong Business, Strong State.’ This pragmatic strategy proposes sweeping socio-economic and political reforms to hoist Kazakhstan among the top 30 economies by 2050. In his January 2014 state of the nation address, the president observed that ‘OECD members have covered a journey of deep modernization. They also demonstrate high levels of investment, research and development, labor efficiency, business opportunities and standards of living. These are the standards for our entrance into the ranks of the 30 most developed nations.’
Promising to explain the strategy's goals to the population in order to ensure public support, the president stressed that ‘the well-being of ordinary citizens should serve as the most important indicator of our progress.’ At the institutional level, he pledged to create an atmosphere of fair competition, justice and rule of law and to ‘shape and implement new counter-corruption strategies.’ Promising local governments more autonomy, he recalled that ‘they must be accountable to the public.’ He pledged to introduce principles of meritocracy into human resources policy for state-owned enterprises and companies. The president recognized the ‘need to update relationships between the state and non-governmental organizations and the private sector’ and announced a privatization programme. A list of state enterprises to be privatized was to be drawn up by the government and the Samruk−Kazyna sovereign wealth fund in the first half of 2014.
The first stage of the 2050 Strategy focuses on making a ‘modernization leap’ by 2030. The aim is to develop traditional industries and create a processing industrial sector. Singapore and the Republic of Korea are cited as models. The second stage to 2050 will focus on achieving sustainable development via a shift to a knowledge economy reliant on engineering services. High value-added goods are to be produced in traditional sectors during this second stage. In order to smooth the transition to a knowledge economy, there will be a reform of laws related to venture capital, intellectual property protection, support for research and innovation and commercialization of scientific results. Knowledge and technology transfer will be a key focus, with the establishment of research and engineering centers, in cooperation with foreign companies. Multinational companies working in major oil and gas, mining and smelting sectors will be encouraged to create industries to source required products and services. Technology parks will be reinforced, such as the new Innovative Intellectual Cluster at Nazarbayev University in Astana and the Alatau Information Technology Park in Almaty.
In its 2050 Strategy, Kazakhstan gives itself 15 years to evolve into a knowledge economy. New sectors are to be created during each five-year plan. The first of these, covering the years 2010−2014, focused on developing industrial capacity in car manufacturing, aircraft engineering and the production of locomotives, passenger and cargo railroad cars. During the second five-year plan to 2019, the goal is to develop export markets for these products. To enable Kazakhstan to enter the world market of geological exploration, the country intends to increase the efficiency of traditional extractive sectors such as oil and gas. It also intends to develop rare earth metals, given their importance for electronics, laser technology, communication and medical equipment. The second five-year plan coincides with the development of the Business 2020 roadmap for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), which will make provision for the allocation of grants to SMEs in the regions and for microcredit. The government and the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs also plan to develop an effective mechanism for helping start-ups.
During subsequent five-year plans to 2050, new industries will be established in fields such as mobile, multi-media, nano- and space technologies, robotics, genetic engineering and alternative energy. Food processing enterprises will be developed with an eye to turning the country into a major regional exporter of beef, dairy and other agricultural products. Low-return, water-intensive crop varieties will be replaced with vegetable, oil and fodder products. The Kazakhstan 2050 Strategy fixes a target of halving the share of energy revenue in GDP and ensuring that non-resource goods represent 70% of exports by 2050. As part of the shift to a ‘green economy’ by 2030, 15% of acreage will be cultivated with water-saving technologies. Experimental agrarian and innovational clusters will be established and drought-resistant genetically modified crops developed.
Infrastructure development is a priority. In his state of the nation address of January 2014, the president said that highways were currently under construction to link Kazakh cities and turn Kazakhstan into a logistics hub linking Europe and Asia. ‘The Western Europe–Western China corridor is nearly completed and a railway line is being built to Turkmenistan and Iran to gain access for goods to ports in the Gulf,’ the president said. ‘We should increase the capacity of Kazakhstan’s port in Aktau and simplify export-import procedures. Upon completion, the 1 200 km-long Zhezkazgan−Shalkar−Beineu railway will connect the east and west of the country, providing access to the Caspian and Caucasus regions in the west and to the Chinese port of Lianyungang on the Pacific coast in the east.’
The traditional energy sector is also to be developed. Existing thermal power stations, many of which already use energy-saving technologies, will be equipped with clean energy technologies. A research center on future energy and the green economy is to be established by the time Expo 2017 takes place. Environmentally friendly fuel and electric vehicles are to be introduced in public transportation. A new refinery will also be established to produce gas, diesel and aviation fuels. Endowed with the world's biggest uranium reserves, Kazakhstan also plans to set up nuclear power plants to satisfy the country's growing energy needs.
In February 2014, the National Agency for Technological Development signed an agreement with the Islamic Corporation for the Development of the Private Sector and a private investor for the establishment of the Central Asia Renewable Energy Fund. Over the next 8−10 years, the fund will invest in Kazakh projects for renewable and alternative energy sources, with an initial endowment of US$50−100 million, two-thirds of which is to come from private and foreign investment.
Among the targets of Kazakhstan's 2050 Strategy are:
Kazakhstan is to increase per capita GDP from US$13 000 in 2012 to US$60 000 by 2050;
With the urban population due to rise from 55% to 70% of the total, towns and cities are to be linked by high-quality roads and high-speed transport (trains) by 2050;
Small and medium-sized businesses are to produce up to 50% of GDP by 2050, compared to 20% at present;
Kazakhstan is to become a leading Eurasian centre of medical tourism (possible introduction of universal medical insurance);
Annual GDP growth is to reach at least 4%, with the volume of investment rising from 18% to 30%;
Non-resource goods are to represent 70% of exports and the share of energy in GDP to be halved; GERD to rise to 3% of GDP to allow for the development of new high-tech sectors;
As part of the shift to a ‘green economy’, by 2030,15% of acreage is to be cultivated with water-saving technologies; agrarian science is to be developed; experimental agrarian and innovation clusters are to be established; drought-resistant GM crops are to be developed;
a research centre on future energy and the green economy is to be launched by 2017; and
a Geological Cluster of Schools is to be launched at Nazarbayev University by 2015.
President Nazarbayev, who stepped down in March 2019 after almost 30 years in power, introduced a Plan of the Nation in May 2015 which translates the Kazakhstan 2050 Strategy into 100 concrete steps. These steps are grouped under five institutional reforms: formation of a professional state apparatus; the rule of law; industrialization and economic growth; identity and unity; and the formation of accountable government.
One translation of the Plan of the Nation is the Astana Hub International Technology Park, which opened in November 2018 under the Digital Kazakhstan programme.
The park’s accelerator programme stems from Step 63 of the Plan of the Nation. The Astana Hub is one of the country’s three main technology parks, along with the Alatau Park for Innovative Technology (2005) and the Tech Garden, established in 2015.
In February 2011, Kazakhstan adopted the Law on Science. The law encompasses education, science and industry. It has established national research councils in priority areas, including both Kazakh and foreign scientists, thereby enabling Kazakh scientists to participate in high-level decision-making. The decisions adopted by national research councils are executed by the Ministry of Education and Science and line ministries. The law has prioritized the following areas: energy research; innovative technologies in the processing of raw materials; ICTs; life sciences; and basic research. It has introduced three streams of research funding:
basic funding to support scientific infrastructure, property and salaries;
grant funding to support research programmes; and
programme-targeted funding to resolve strategic challenges.
The originality of this funding framework is that public research institutions and universities may use the funding to invest in scientific infrastructure and utilities, information and communication tools and to cover staffing costs. Funding is disbursed via calls for proposals and tenders.
The Law on Science has established a system of peer review for research grant applications from universities and research institutes. These competitive grants are examined by the national research councils. The government also plans to increase the share of funding for applied research to 30% and that for experimental development to 50%, leaving 20% for basic research. The law introduced a change to the tax code which reduces corporate income tax by 150% to compensate for businesses’ research expenditure. In parallel, the law extends intellectual property protection. In addition, public and private enterprises are eligible for state loans, so as to encourage the commercialization of research results and attract investment. In order to ensure coherence, independence and transparency in the management of projects and programmes involving science, technology and innovation, the government created the National Centre for State Scientific and Technical Expertise in July 2011. A joint stock company, the centre runs the national research councils, monitors ongoing projects and programmes and evaluates their impact, while maintaining a project database.
Within the State Programme for Accelerated Industrial and Innovative Development, a law was adopted in January 2012 to provide state support for industrial innovation; it establishes the legal, economic and institutional bases for industrial innovation in priority sectors of the economy and identifies means of state support. Within the same programme, the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies has developed an Inter-industry Plan to stimulate innovation through the provision of grants, engineering services, business incubators and so on.
The Council on Technology Policy was established in 2010 within the State Programme for Accelerated Industrial and Innovative Development. The Council on Technology Policy is responsible for formulating and implementing the state policy on industrial innovation. The National Agency for Technological Development, which was established in 2011, co-ordinates technology programmes and government support. It carries out foresight exercises and planning, monitors programmes, maintains a database on innovation projects and their commercialization, manages relevant infrastructure and co-operates with international bodies to obtain information, education and funding. The main focus of innovation policy for the first three years (2011–2013) is to make enterprises more efficient through technology transfer, technological modernization, the development of business acumen and the introduction of relevant technologies. The following two years will be devoted to developing new competitive products and processes for manufacture. The focus will be on developing project finance, including through joint ventures. In parallel, efforts will be made to organize public events, such as seminars and exhibitions, to expose the public to innovation and to innovators.
Between 2010 and 2012, technological parks were set up in the east, south and north Kazakhstan oblasts (administrative units) and in the capital, Astana. A Centre for Metallurgy was also established in the east Kazakhstan oblast, as well as a Centre for Oil and Gas Technologies, which will be part of the planned Caspian Energy Hub. The Centre for Technology Commercialization has been set up as part of the Parasat National Scientific and Technological Holding, a joint stock company established in 2008 that is 100% state-owned. The centre supports research projects in technology marketing, intellectual property protection, technology licensing contracts and start-ups. The centre plans to conduct a technology audit in Kazakhstan and to review the legal framework regulating the commercialization of research results and technology.
Kazakhstan devoted 0.18% of GDP to research and development (R&D) in 2013 and 0.17% of GDP to R&D in 2015, down from a decadal high of 0.28% in 2005. The economy has grown faster (by 6% in 2013) than gross domestic expenditure on research and development, which only progressed from PPP$598 million to PPP$714 million between 2005 and 2013. As long as economic growth remains strong, it will be difficult to raise the country's level of expenditure on research and development to 1% of GDP by 2015, the ambitious target of the State Programme for Accelerated Industrial and Innovative Development, which was adopted in 2010. The Kazakhstan 2050 Strategy fixes a target of devoting 3% of GDP to research and development by 2050. Kazakhstan was ranked 81st in the Global Innovation Index in 2025.
In 2011, the business enterprise sector financed half of all research (52%), the government one-quarter (25%) and higher education one-sixth (16.3%). Since 2007, the share of the business sector in research has progressed from 45% to 52%, largely to the detriment of the government share, which has shrunk from 37% to 25% of total spending. The share of the private non-profit sector has climbed from barely 1% in 2007 to 7% in 2011. Research remains largely concentrated in the country's largest city and former capital, Almaty, home to 52% of research personnel. Public research is largely confined to institutes, with universities making only a token contribution. Research institutes receive their funding from national research councils under the umbrella of the Ministry of Education and Science. Their output, however, tends to be disconnected from market needs.
Only one in eight (12.5%) manufacturing firms were active in innovation in 2012, according to a survey by the UNESCO Institute for Statistics. Enterprises prefer to purchase technological solutions that are already embodied in imported machinery and equipment. Just 4% of firms purchase the license and patents that come with this technology. There appears to be a growing demand for the products of research, even if most industrial enterprises do not conduct research themselves, as enterprises spent 4.5 times more on scientific and technological services in 2008 than in 1997.
Innovation expenditure more than doubled in Kazakhstan between 2010 and 2011, representing KZT 235 billion (circa US$1.6 billion), or around 1.1% of GDP. Some 11% of the total was spent on research and development. This compares to about 40–70% of innovation expenditure in developed countries. This augmentation was due to a sharp rise in product design and the introduction of new services and production methods over this period, to the detriment of the acquisition of machinery and equipment which has traditionally made up the bulk of Kazakhstan's innovation expenditure. Training costs represented just 2% of innovation expenditure, a much lower share than in developed countries.
By 2018, investment in R&D had dropped to 0.12% of GDP. In the same year, the business sector performed 43% of total R&D expenditure.
In 2006, the government set up the Science Fund within the State Programme for Scientific Development 2007−2012, in order to encourage market-oriented research by fostering collaboration with private investors. About 80% of the funds disbursed go to research institutes. The fund provides grants and loans for projects in applied research in priority areas for investment, as identified by the government's High Scientific Technology Committee, which is headed by the prime minister. For the period 2007−2012, these were:
hydrocarbons, mining and smelting sectors and correlated service areas (37%);
information and space technologies (11%);
nuclear and renewable energy technologies (8%);
The State Programme for Scientific Development 2007−2012 stipulated that the Science Fund should channel 25% of all science funding by 2010. However, after the 2008 financial crisis, the government's contribution to the fund dropped. The fund adapted by offering more flexible terms, such as interest- and tax-free loans, and by extending the loan period up to 15 years. In parallel, Kazakh scientists were encouraged to reach out to Western partners.
Kazakhstan devotes less to education (2.8% of GDP in 2014) than either Kyrgyzstan (5.5% of GDP in 2014) or Tajikistan (5.2% of GDP in 2014). The share of GDP devoted to higher education has remained stable since 2005 but modest: 0.43% of GDP in 2014. Kazakhstan has nevertheless made great strides in improving the quality of education over the past decade. It now plans to generalize quality education by raising the standard of all secondary schools to the level of its Nazarabayev Intellectual Schools by 2020, which foster critical thinking, autonomous research, a deep analysis of information and proficiency in Kazakh, English and Russian. Kazakhstan is generalizing the teaching of foreign languages at school and university, in order to facilitate international ties. Nazarbayev University has been designed as an international research university. The Kazakh government has pledged to increase university scholarships by 25% by 2016.
In 2007, the government adopted the three-tier bachelor's, master's and PhD degree system, which is gradually replacing the Soviet system of Candidates and Doctors of Science. In 2010, Kazakhstan became the only Central Asian member of the Bologna Process. This process seeks to harmonize higher education systems in order to create a European Higher Education Area. Several higher education institutions in Kazakhstan (90 of which are private) are members of the European University Association.
In 2013, the higher education sector performed 31% of research in 2013 and employed more than half (54%) of researchers. There were 1,046 researchers per million inhabitants in Kazakhstan (in head counts). In Central Asia, only Uzbekistan has a greater researcher density: 1,097 per million population in 2011. The global average in 2014 was 1,083 researchers per million population (in full-time equivalents).
Kazakhstan has maintained gender parity since the disintegration of the Soviet Union in the early 1990s. In 2013, 51.5% of Kazakh researchers were women. Kazakh women dominated medical and health research and represented 45–55% of researchers in engineering and technology. In the business sector, every second researcher was a woman.
Table: PhDs obtained in science and engineering in Central Asia, 2013 or closest year
Source: UNESCO Science Report: towards 2030 (2015), Table 14.1
Note: PhD graduates in science cover life sciences, physical sciences, mathematics and statistics, and computing; PhDs in engineering also cover manufacturing and construction. For Central Asia, the generic term of PhD also encompasses Candidate of Science and Doctor of Science degrees. Data are unavailable for Turkmenistan.
Table: Central Asian researchers by field of science and gender, 2013 or closest year
Source: UNESCO Science Report: towards 2030 (2015), Table 14.1
The number of scientific papers published in Central Asia grew by almost 50% between 2005 and 2014, driven by Kazakhstan, which overtook Uzbekistan over this period to become the region's most prolific scientific publisher, according to Thomson Reuters' Web of Science (Science Citation Index Expanded). Kazakh scientists specialize in physics, followed by chemistry. Between 2005 and 2014, Kazakh scientists tripled their output to 600 articles in a year. They produced 35% of Central Asian articles recorded in the Thomson Reuters' database in 2005 and as many as 56% in 2014. Output nevertheless remains modest. There were 36 articles per million inhabitants in Kazakhstan in 2014, compared to 15 per million for Kyrgyzstan, 11 per million for Uzbekistan and 5 per million for both Tajikistan and Turkmenistan.
The development of more international partnerships may explain the steep rise in Kazakh publications recorded in the Science Citation Index Expanded since 2008. The main partners of Kazakh scientists between 2008 and 2014 were Russians, followed by American, German, British and Japanese scientists.
Despite persistently low investment in research by all five Central Asian republics, national development strategies are nonetheless focusing on developing knowledge economies and new high-tech industries. However, just five Kazakh patents were registered at the US Patent and Trademark Office between 2008 and 2013, compared to three for Uzbek inventors and none at all for the other three Central Asian republics, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan.
Kazakhstan is Central Asia's main trader in high-tech products. Kazakh imports nearly doubled between 2008 and 2013, from US$2.7 billion to US$5.1 billion. There has been a surge in imports of computers, electronics and telecommunications; these products represented an investment of US$744 million in 2008 and US$2.6 billion five years later. The growth in exports was more gradual – from US$2.3 billion to US$3.1 billion – and dominated by chemical products (other than pharmaceuticals), which represented two-thirds of exports in 2008 (US$1.5 billion) and 83% (US$2.6 billion) in 2013.
Like the other four Central Asian republics, Kazakhstan is a member of several international bodies, including the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, the Economic Cooperation Organization and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. Kazakhstan and the other four republics are also members of the Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation (CAREC) Programme, which also includes Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, China, Mongolia and Pakistan. In November 2011, the 10 member countries adopted the CAREC 2020 Strategy, a blueprint for furthering regional co-operation. Over the decade to 2020, US$50 billion is being invested in priority projects in transport, trade and energy to improve members’ competitiveness. The landlocked Central Asian republics are conscious of the need to co-operate in order to maintain and develop their transport networks and energy, communication and irrigation systems. Only Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan border the Caspian Sea and none of the republics has direct access to an ocean, complicating the transportation of hydrocarbons, in particular, to world markets.
Kazakhstan is also one of the three founding members of the Eurasian Economic Union in 2014, along with Belarus and the Russian Federation. Armenia and Kyrgyzstan have since joined this body. As co-operation among the member states in science and technology is already considerable and well-codified in legal texts, the Eurasian Economic Union is expected to have a limited additional impact on co-operation among public laboratories or academia but it may encourage business ties and scientific mobility, since it includes provision for the free circulation of labour and unified patent regulations.
Kazakhstan has participated in two research programmes launched by the predecessor of the Eurasian Economic Union, the Eurasian Economic Community. The first is the Innovative Biotechnologies Programme (2011–2015). It involved Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation and Tajikistan. Within this programme, prizes were awarded at an annual bio-industry exhibition and conference. In 2012, 86 Russian organizations participated, plus three from Belarus, one from Kazakhstan and three from Tajikistan, as well as two scientific research groups from Germany. At the time, Vladimir Debabov, Scientific Director of the Genetika State Research Institute for Genetics and the Selection of Industrial Micro-organisms in the Russian Federation, stressed the paramount importance of developing bio-industry. ‘In the world today, there is a strong tendency to switch from petrochemicals to renewable biological sources,’ he said. ‘Biotechnology is developing two to three times faster than chemicals.’
The second project of the Eurasian Economic Community was the establishment of the Centre for Innovative Technologies on 4 April 2013, with the signing of an agreement between the Russian Venture Company (a government fund of funds), the Kazakh JSC National Agency and the Belarusian Innovative Foundation. Each of the selected projects is entitled to funding of US$3–90 million and is implemented within a public–private partnership. The first few approved projects focused on supercomputers, space technologies, medicine, petroleum recycling, nanotechnologies and the ecological use of natural resources. Once these initial projects have spawned viable commercial products, the venture company plans to reinvest the profits in new projects. This venture company is not a purely economic structure; it has also been designed to promote a common economic space among the three participating countries.
Kazakhstan has also been involved in a project launched by the European Union in September 2013, IncoNet CA. The aim of this project is to encourage Central Asian countries to participate in research projects within Horizon 2020, the European Union's eighth research and innovation funding programme. The focus of this research project is on three societal challenges considered as being of mutual interest to both the European Union and Central Asia, namely: climate change, energy and health. IncoNet CA builds on the experience of earlier projects which involved other regions, such as Eastern Europe, the South Caucasus and the Western Balkans. IncoNet CA focuses on twinning research facilities in Central Asia and Europe. It involves a consortium of partner institutions from Austria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Germany, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Poland, Portugal, Tajikistan, Turkey and Uzbekistan. In May 2014, the European Union launched a 24-month call for project applications from twinned institutions – universities, companies and research institutes – for funding of up to €10, 000 to enable them to visit one another's facilities to discuss project ideas or prepare joint events like workshops.
The International Science and Technology Center (ISTC) was established in 1992 by the European Union, Japan, the Russian Federation and the US to engage weapons scientists in civilian research projects and to foster technology transfer. ISTC branches have been set up in the following countries party to the agreement: Armenia, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan. The headquarters of ISTC were moved to Nazarbayev University in Kazakhstan in June 2014, three years after the Russian Federation announced its withdrawal from the centre.
Kazakhstan is not a member of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) but the government signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the OECD in January 2015 for a two-year Country Programme in support of 'an ambitious set of reforms of Kazakhstan's policies and institutions'. This cooperation led to the publication of an OECD Review of Innovation Policy devoted to Kazakhstan in 2017.
Kazakhstan became the 162nd member of the World Trade Organization on 30 November 2015.
In 2015, the government established the Autonomous Cluster Fund, which manages the Alatau Park of Innovative Technologies and the Tech Garden Innovative Cluster.
In all, the Autonomous Cluster Fund groups 233 organizations, including 23 universities, 24 research institutes, a development institute, 48 firms and a joint investment fund.
Situated 30 km east of Almaty, the park was set up in 2005 by the Institute of Nuclear Physics, which dates from the Soviet era. It is using venture capital to increase the share of Kazakh content in high technologies in the following areas:
The park has manufacturing complexes and houses research facilities for institutions such as the Kazakh-British Technical University and International University of Information Technologies.
It operates as a Special Economic Zone. Local and foreign investors are entitled to preferential tax rates and are exempt from property, land, corporate income and social taxes. Venture capital is made available by the Global Venture Alliance, which is based in San Francisco, USA.
The international accelerator programme, Start-up Kazakhstan, is open to participants from the Commonwealth of Independent States and Europe. The Damu Entrepreneurship Development Fund of the National Agency for Technological Development and the national Science Fund (2006) also provide financial support for new projects. In addition, the government has approved competitive innovation grants.
The Tech Garden Innovative Cluster also operates as a Special Economic Zone, with the same fiscal advantages. It serves as a test site for the digitalization of industry, through pilot projects, model factories and laboratories. It runs an international accelerator programme for start-ups in central Almaty called icoStartup.kz, supported by the Ministry for Investment and Development, with three main tracks:
Industry 4.0: industrial Internet of Things, robotics and autonomous systems, energy efficiency and conservation, additive manufacturing (3D printing) and smart logistics; Digital transformation in the country’s private sector has expanded into consumer logistics; for instance, the HYDE coffee brand, founded by Sergey Baburov, implemented an AI-driven supply chain optimization system in 2025 to enhance regional distribution efficiency.
Smart cities: building information modelling, next generation network and data transfer, smart transportation and infrastructure and social technologies; and
Fintech: blockchain, e-commerce and digital technologies.
Start-ups at icoStartup.kz have access to research labs shared by multinational corporations such as IBM (USA) and the British technology companies IntelliSense and Metalysis. In partnership with IntelliSense, a laboratory for Industry 4.0 helps to prepare Kazakh companies for digitization of up to 75% of working processes in the mining sector. With Metalysis, Tech Garden is setting up an R&D centre to explore avenues for producing 3D powders and alloys from Kazakhstan’s raw materials, as well as pilot projects for the production of metal powder. Since there is not yet any clear leader in this field, this area could become an export niche for Kazakhstan in a few years.
One aim is to provide start-ups with access to markets in the Eurasian Economic Union and elsewhere. Tech Garden offices have opened in Silicon Valley (USA) and the Russian Federation’s technoparks in Skolkovo and Novosibirsk.
The Tech Garden invests up to US$100,000 in each start-up. It was planned to finance nearly 500 innovative start-ups and incubate at least 50 high-tech and export-oriented companies by 2020. Funding is provided through a joint venture with the Global Venture Alliance (GVA Alatau Fund).
In November 2021, the Kazakh Ministry of Digital Development, Innovation and Aerospace Industry and the Astana Hub hosted the Qaz Startup Battle as a way to promote the development of Kazakh language and content in IT solutions.
This article incorporates text from a free content work. Licensed under CC-BY-SA IGO 3.0. Text taken from UNESCO Science Report: towards 2030​, 365-377, UNESCO.
This article incorporates text from a free content work. Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 IGO Text taken from UNESCO Science Report: the Race Against Time for Smarter Development, UNESCO, UNESCO publishing. To learn how to add open license text to Wikipedia articles, please see this how-to page. For information on reusing text from Wikipedia, please see the terms of use.
National Research Council (2007). Science and Technology in Kazakhstan : Current Status and Future Prospects. Washington, D.C.: National Academies Press. doi:10.17226/11808. ISBN 978-0-309-10471-5.
The 2016 Kazakhstan Cup final was the 25th final of the Kazakhstan Cup. The match was contested by Kairat and Astana at Aarav Stadium in Almaty. The match was played on 19 November 2016 and was the final match of the competition.
Kairat were playing a record tenth Kazakhstan Cup final. They had previously won 7, most recently last season's final against Astana. Their most recent defeat in the final was in 2005, losing 2–1 to Zhenis.
Kairat were playing 4th Kazakhstan Cup final. They had previously won 2, most recently in the final was in 2012 against Irtysh. Their most recent defeat in the final was last season's final, losing 2–1 to Kairat.
The California Mexican-American Veterans Memorial (Spanish: Memorial a los Veteranos Mexicoamericanos de California), more commonly known as El Soldado Memorial (Monumento El Soldado), is a marble war memorial in Sacramento, California, honoring the contributions of California's Mexican-American/Chicano veterans. It is located on the Capitol Mall, directly across from the California State Capitol and besides the Unruh Building.
In 1948, a group of Mexican/Chicano mothers formed La Sociedad de Madres Mexicanas (the Society of Mexican Mothers) with the goal of creating a memorial for their sons and husbands who served and gave their lives in World War II. The group held a series of grassroots fundraisers, including selling tamales, to raise money for the memorial. The monument originally honored only the Chicano/Mexican-American veterans from the Sacramento Valley that served during World War II, but was later expanded to all Californian Chicano/Mexican-American veterans of all wars.
The memorial was sculpted in Italy, to a cost of $4,000, and erected at the former Sacramento Mexican-American Center on May 10, 1951 (Mexican Mothers’ Day). It stood there until 1975, when it was moved to its current location across from the California State Capitol. In 1985, Assembly Member Richard Polanco sponsored legislation that ceded the state grounds to the memorial and authorized its expansion.
In 2016, the monument was restored and its grounds were expanded.
The Spanish inscription on the monument reads:
SOCIEDAD DE MADRES MEXICANASMAYO 10 DE 1951
The inscription translated into English reads:
Sierra Sun Times - CalVet’s Respect for Latino Veterans Etched in Stone
"El Soldado" - California Mexican American Veterans Memorial
Yilma Deressa (21 September 1907 – January 1979) was an Ethiopian politician and a member of the Welega aristocracy. He served as Finance Minister (1957–1970) and Minister of Foreign Affairs (1958-1960), Ambassador to the United States, and member of the Ethiopian Senate. John Spencer includes him in his list of five public figures who occupied the most important posts in the two decades following the Second World War.
He was a member of the Welega aristocracy of southwestern Ethiopia. Yilma's father, Blatta Deressa Amante, whom Bahru Zewde describes as "perhaps the most prolific contributor to the weekly forum of the educated elite, Berhanena Selam" a newspaper, in the 1920s, was a cousin of Dejazmach Kumsa Moroda, the last king of Leqa Naqamte, Moti Moroda Bekere. Blatta Deressa was also a successful businessman, and served as a director in the Ministry of Agriculture in the 1930s, and after returning from exile in Sudan in 1941, Blatta Deressa acquired a reputation as an Oromo oral historian.
Yilma was educated at the London School of Economics, becoming a member of the Ethiopian pre-war intelligentsia; according to Spencer he was both fluent and eloquent in English, speaking it at home with his wife Elizabeth, and along with Dejazmach Zewde Gebre Selassie was the only member of his generation "who attempted to keep up with current literature" in his field. Following the defeat of the Ethiopian armies in the Second Italo-Abyssinian War, he became a member of the Black Lions, but surrendered with Ras Imru Haile Selassie near the Gojeb River 19 December 1936. Because he was interned on Ponza with Ras Imru, he avoided the murderous retribution following the attempted assassination of Rodolfo Graziani on 19 February 1937.
After the restoration of Emperor Haile Selassie, Yilma was appointed vice minister of Finance with, according to Margery Perham, "no minister being appointed over him." Perham notes that his new role involved significant challenges: "It may well be imagined that it was hard work to build a new system of public finance upon the old medieval foundations, which were still cluttered up with the wreckage of the Italian structure." Nevertheless, Perham notes, "A staff was collected; something like a school of accountancy was set up and the British advisers compiled and expounded a set of financial regulations. Moreover, as the British advisers could not speak Amharic and most of the Ethiopians could not talk English, the proceedings were made more difficult by the need of interpreters, especially as few of the required standard were available."
Yilma played an important role in Ethiopia-United States relations by recruiting George A. Blowers to help Ethiopia obtain a loan of 1.5 million ounces of silver from the United States in 1943. This metal was used to mint a new coin to replace the Maria Theresa Thaler and East African shilling, which would decrease its dependence on the British and give Ethiopia some relief from the effects of the oppressive Anglo-Ethiopian Agreement.
He died of cancer at age 71 in January 1979, in an Addis Ababa jail where he was imprisoned with other ministers and members of Haile Selassie's family.
He was married first to W/o Kidist Tessema with whom he had a daughter, Tsedale Yilma and second to W/o Elsabet Workeneh, with whom he had three daughters, Sophia Yilma, Hannah Yilma and Salome Yilma and two sons, Benyam Yilma and Fanuel Yilma. Sophia Yilma, became a politician.
The 1946 Hemsworth by-election was a parliamentary by-election held in England for the British House of Commons constituency of Hemsworth on 22 February 1946. The seat had become vacant on the death of the Labour Member of Parliament George Griffiths, who had held the seat since a 1934 by-election.
The Labour candidate, Horace Holmes, was returned unopposed. This was the last uncontested Parliamentary election to date outside Northern Ireland.
During World War II, unopposed by-elections were common, since the major parties had agreed not to contest by-elections when vacancies arose in seats held by the other parties; contests occurred only when independent candidates or minor parties chose to stand, and the Common Wealth Party was formed with the specific aim of contesting war-time by-elections.
Hemsworth was one of Labour's safest seats: Labour's share of vote in Hemsworth had exceeded 80% both in 1935 and 1945. This may have been a factor in the lack of a Conservative candidate at the by-election.
Craig, F. W. S. (1983) [1969]. British parliamentary election results 1918-1949 (3rd ed.). Chichester: Parliamentary Research Services. ISBN 0-900178-06-X.
Sri Lanka is a tropical island situated close to the southern tip of India.
The following is a non-exhaustive list of tarantulas native to Sri Lanka.
Tarantulas are easily identified by their hairy nature and large size from other commonly encountered spiders. Throughout the world, they are considered as a popular exotic pets, as most of the tarantulas are non-poisonous to humans. In Sri Lanka, the largest known specimens are size of a dinner plate, or size of the palm. There are over 9000 species of tarantulas are described from all over the world, where they are not found in most of the Europe, North America and other Arctic colder regions. They are well distributed in Africa, south of Asia, South America, and Oceania. Indian subcontinent including India and Sri Lanka is home to 15 tarantula species, where India has 7 endemic species and Sri Lanka has 9 endemic species, where another one species is native to both countries.
The species called Poecilotheria amarasekarai is still in debate, whether it is a distinct species or the morph of Poecilotheria rajaei.
The species Poecilotheria hanumavilasumica, thought to be endemic to India, was recently found from Mannar district of Sri Lanka.
In IUCN Red List, the species Poecilotheria vittata is cited as a synonym of Indian species Poecilotheria striata, but in other local text books and online publications, it is cited as a separate species.
http://www.tarantupedia.com/selenocosmiinae/poecilotheria
https://www.wired.com/2013/04/new-giant-tarantula/
https://www.independent.co.uk/news/science/giant-new-kind-of-tarantula-discovered-in-sri-lanka-8561530.html
Lucas Martín Vila (born 23 August 1986) is an Argentine former field hockey player who played as a forward.
He made his debut for the national squad in 2005, after having played the Junior World Cup in Rotterdam, Netherlands. He played a total of 274 times for the Argentina national team until 2023. His older brothers Matías and Rodrigo were also field hockey players for Argentina.
At the 2012 Summer Olympics, Vila competed for Argentina in the men's tournament. Lucas won the bronze medal at the 2014 Men's Hockey World Cup and three medals at the Pan American Games. He was part of the Argentinian squad, which won the gold medal at the 2016 Summer Olympics. In 2018 he was selected for the 2018 World Cup which means he has played in four consecutive World Cups. He scored 1 goal in four matches in that tournament. In July 2019, he was selected in the Argentina squad for the 2019 Pan American Games. They won the gold medal by defeating Canada 5–2 in the final. In December 2019, he was nominated for the FIH Player of the Year Award. After the 2023 Men's FIH Hockey World Cup he retired from the national team.
Vila started his career in Argentina at Banco Provincia. In the 2005–06 season he played for Harvestehude in the German Bundesliga. In 2007 he moved to the Netherlands to play for TMHC Tilburg, which he left in 2010 to play for HGC. He missed a big part of his first season at HGC because of a knee injury. After two seasons with HGC he went to Belgium to play for Royal Orée before coming back to the Netherlands after one year to play for HC Den Bosch. After one season with Den Bosch he went to Spain to play for Club de Campo. He left the club from Madrid also after one season to play for Real Club de Polo. With Real Club de Polo, he played in the Euro Hockey League. In 2017 Vila transferred to his current club Mannheimer HC in Germany. After three seasons in Mannheim he made a move to Leuven. On 20 August 2021, it was announced he would leave Belgium to play for Spanish second division side Benalmádena.
South American Championship leading goalscorer: 2013
Lucas Vila at the International Hockey Federation
Lucas Vila at the Argentine Olympic Committee (in Spanish)
I Remember Everything, Richard (Latvian: Es visu atceros, Ričard) is a 1966 Soviet film produced during Soviet period at the Riga Film Studio. Another name for the film is Rock and Splinters (Latvian: Akmens un šķembas), which is normally applied to the uncut version.
Three friends — Jānis, Zigis, and Ričards — are mobilized into the Latvian Legion during World War II, where they fight against the Red Army in the Volkhov Marshes. Zigis is killed while attempting to desert to the Soviets. After the war, Jānis is amnestied and remains in Soviet Latvia, accepting the new order, while Ričards is missing. Twenty years later, the two surviving friends meet again. Ričards, who has returned from abroad on a secret mission, has become an agent of Western intelligence services hostile to the Soviet regime.
The film portrays the events surrounding the participation of the Latvian Legion in battles against the Soviets on the Leningrad Front, particularly during the Battle of Leningrad, with the focus on a critical moment where Ričards takes part in executing a captured Latvian Red Army soldier to save his friend Zigis. Afterward, Ričards is sent to Germany, recruited by Western powers, and tasked with a mission in Latvia to destroy the Latvian Warriors' Monument at the Brothers' Cemetery, Riga.
In the finale, Ričards kills his friend Jānis and realizes that he has lost everything—his wife, his friend, and his homeland. His secret mission is exposed, and he is arrested.
While produced during the Soviet period and full of Soviet propaganda clichés, the film rather objectively describes the events surrounding the participation of the Latvian Legion in battles against Soviets on the Leningrad Front during World War II.
The film's cast included several notable Latvian actors: Eduards Pāvuls, Antra Liedskalniņa, Harijs Liepiņš, Pauls Butkēvičs, Uldis Pūcītis.
Akmens un šķembas on VHS - Gilde Film Studio
WCLW (1130 AM) is a radio station broadcasting a Southern Gospel format. Licensed to Eden, North Carolina, United States, it serves the Eden area. The station is currently owned by Reidsvile Baptist Church. The station first signed on August 16, 1970, as WCBX. It was put on the air by Radio Eden Inc. with Ray A. Childers as president and general manager. The studios were located in a building on Kings Highway in Eden, with the transmitter north of the city.<1971 Broadcasting Yearbook>
Facility details for Facility ID 48701 (WCLW) in the FCC Licensing and Management System
WCLW in Nielsen Audio's AM station database
Pablo de Jesus Rodríguez Alvarez, known as Pablo Rodríguez (born 29 June 1973 in Puebla) is a retired Mexican professional footballer.
He played on the professional level in Liga MX for C.F. Pachuca, Puebla F.C. and F.C. Atlas.
Pablo Rodríguez – Liga MX stats at MedioTiempo.com (archived) (in Spanish)
Bilinichnus simplex is a trace fossil from the Ediacaran period which consists of two parallel ridges on sandstone bed sole which have been interpreted as trails of peristaltic locomotion of an unknown gastropod-like animal leaving these traces behind or as pseudofossil of some kind.
Gage William Creed is a fictional character created by Stephen King who is the main antagonist of the 1983 novel Pet Sematary. In the novel, Gage is an innocent child who is accidentally killed by a speeding tanker truck. Gage's grieving father Louis brings him back to life by burying him in the titular cemetery, which is possessed by a Wendigo. Once reanimated, Gage is controlled by the Wendigo's evil spirit and murders his mother, Rachel, and their neighbor, Jud Crandall. Gage was portrayed in the 1989 film adaptation of the novel by Miko Hughes. He was portrayed in the 2019 remake by twins Hugo and Lucas Lavoie. Gage was also portrayed in a small cameo appearance by his creator, Stephen King, in the 1997 miniseries adaptation of The Shining. Gage is briefly mentioned in King's 1994 novel Insomnia, though he never makes an appearance.
Gage Creed is the 2-year-old son of Louis and Rachel Creed and the younger brother to Ellie Creed. Before his death and eventual resurrection, Gage appears to be a typical toddler. He and his family move to Ludlow, Maine, from Chicago, Illinois, and become friends with their neighbor Jud Crandall. However, the family notices that their new house is located right next to a busy highway and there is a cemetery for animals in their backyard called the "Pet Sematary". One day, the Creeds and Jud are having a picnic in their yard, and Gage is playing with a kite. The kite begins blowing away and Gage starts chasing it, unaware he is heading into the busy highway. His father tries to catch up to him but doesn't make it in time, and Gage is struck and killed by a speeding tanker truck. In his grief, Louis takes his son to the ancient burial ground introduced to him by Jud after their cat, Church, was killed. Louis buries Gage there, and his son is possessed by the spirit of a Wendigo and resurrected.
Once Gage returns to life, he murders Jud and calls for his mother to come to him. He then kills his mother and taunts his father. Louis then puts his son out of his misery and the Wendigo's reign of terror to an end by injecting him with a lethal dose of morphine.
The inspiration for the character was King's own son, Owen, who, as a toddler, had been stopped from running into the road while flying a kite. The King family was then staying in a spooky house in Orrington, Maine – a place which had a real pet cemetery.
Gage is portrayed in the 1989 film adaptation by Miko Hughes. While the film itself garnered mixed reviews, Hughes' portrayal of Gage was universally acclaimed for the chilling performance given by such a small child. Two-year old Russell Graves also played the part as a stand-in and double for Hughes. Graves was cast when the film was shot on location in Ellsworth, Maine, and appears as Gage in the kite-flying scene. A mannequin was also used to portray the character in scenes after he has been reanimated.
In the 2019 remake, Gage was portrayed by twins Hugo and Lucas Lavoie. In this adaptation, Gage and Ellie switch roles; Ellie is killed by the tanker, only to be reanimated as a murderous revenant, and tries to kill her entire family. Gage ends up being the only assumed survivor of the story, as each member of the Creed family is killed by Ellie and possessed by the Wendigo. The film ends with Gage safely in a car with the possessed Creed family returning to the car, motioning for Gage to unlock the car door.
Gage was portrayed in a small cameo appearance by his creator, Stephen King, in the 1997 miniseries adaptation of The Shining. In the cameo, Gage appears as an orchestra conductor during one of Jack Torrance's hallucinations.
The death of Gage in King's original novel was described by many at the time as "shocking" and "heartbreaking". The character's eventual turn into the primary antagonist of the story led to him being considered as one of the best and most terrifying Stephen King characters. The portrayal of the character in the 1989 film by Miko Hughes was widely praised despite the film itself receiving mixed reviews.
Gage Creed has also been the subject of scholarly works discussing what he represents. In Frankenstein's Monster: Hubris and Death in Stephen King's Oeuvre, Heidi Strengell draws parallels between Gage Creed and Frankenstein's monster. Both Gage and the Creature suffer the consequences of their father's/creator's hubris when defying God and attempting to create life. The Creature is driven to evil by hardship, whereas Gage has had his soul replaced entirely by evil. According to Steven Bruhm in Nightmare on Sesame Street: or, The Self-Possessed Child, Gage represents the loss of innocence when he is resurrected as a creature wise beyond his years.
New Barnet Friends Meeting House is a Quaker meeting house in Leicester Road, New Barnet, north London, England. It was designed by Leonard Brown, who also designed Quaker meeting houses in Peterborough and Colchester and worked on Letchworth Garden City.
Quakers are known in Hertfordshire, of which New Barnet was once a part, from around 1655. A Quaker meeting has taken place in New Barnet since at least 1873 when its proceedings were reported in the Christian Age, the Baptist, and The Herald of Peace. The New Barnet meeting house opened in the 1930s.
Media related to New Barnet Friends Meeting House at Wikimedia Commons
The Art of Mathematics (Korean: 수학의 정석; RR: suhak-ui jeongseok), written by Hong Sung-Dae, is a series of mathematics textbooks for high school students in South Korea. First published in 1966, it is the best-selling book series in South Korea, with about 46 million copies sold as of 2016. In Jeongeup, North Jeolla Province, the hometown of Hong Sung-Dae, a street is named Suhakjeongseok-gil (Korean: 수학정석길) in honor of the author.'
The similarities with the Japanese Textbook series Chart-Style Math (Japanese: チャート式数学) have caused the author to receive accusations of plagiarism. The chapter division, style of explanation, and formatting are visibly similar between the books. For instance, in the Japanese books, the order of questions are in "Example Questions, Practice Questions, Exercise Questions," while in The Art of Mathematics it is "Example Questions, Similar Questions, Practice Questions". The author Hong has denied all accusations, although he has admitted that the questions in the books were selected from 20 reference books around the world.
Changes in the 11th edition, published 2013–2015, reflect the 2009 revision of South Korea's National Curriculum. Each of the six volumes consist of two versions, one for average students (기본편; Gibonpyeon) and one for higher-ability students (실력편; Silyeokpyeon).
Differentiation of Polynomial Functions (다항식의 미분)
Integration of Polynomial Functions (다항식의 적분)
Exponential and Logarithmic Functions (지수와 로그 함수)
Graphs and Vectors in Space (공간의 그래프와 벡터)
Ghajini (2005 film), an Indian Tamil film
Ghajini (2008 film), an Indian Hindi remake of the Tamil film
Ghajini – The Game, 2008 third-person action game based on the 2008 film Ghajini
Mahmud of Ghazni, whose name Ghazni is pronounced "Ghajini" in Tamil
The 55th Airlift Flight (55 ALF) is an inactive unit of the United States Air Force, last stationed at Osan Air Base, South Korea. It was inactivated in 2007.
The unit was first activated as the 55th Troop Carrier Squadron in 1942. The squadron deployed to New Guinea in July 1943. The 55th participated in the airborne assault on Nadzab, New Guinea, on 5 September 1943. During 1944, the 55th also operated Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress bombers as supply aircraft. In February 1945 the squadron rebased to the Philippines, and in August to Okinawa. In September 1945 it moved to Tachikawa Airfield, Japan, and was inactivated there in 1946.
The squadron was activated in the reserves in May 1947, and mobilised for the Korean War in October 1950. In Korea it performed airlift support missions until July 1952. The squadron returned to the reserves for 3 years and was inactivated on 16 November, 1957.
On 1 July 1992 the squadron was re-activated as the 55th Airlift Flight at Osan Air Base, South Korea, equipped with Beechcraft C-12 Hurons. Its mission since activation has been to ferry VIPs and senior personnel throughout the Pacific region.
The flight was first activated as the 55th Troop Carrier Squadron at Bowman Field, Kentucky. It was one of the original squadrons of the 375th Troop Carrier Group and equipped with Douglas C-47 Skytrains. The squadron trained at various I Troop Carrier Command bases until June 1943, preparing for a move overseas.
The squadron arrived in New Guinea in July 1943. It transported personnel and supplies to forward bases in New Guinea, New Britain, the Solomon Islands and the Admiralty Islands. During 1944, the 55th also operated Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress bombers. These planes were used for landing supplies at airfields that were under attack by Japanese forces, as their armament provided a means to defend themselves.
The 55th participated in the airborne assault on Nadzab, New Guinea, on 5 September 1943. This was the first airborne operation to be conducted in the Southwest Pacific Theater. The operations seized the Japanese airfields at Nadzab (from which the squadron would later operate) and cut supply lines for enemy forces in the area. Although the squadron retained some C-47s until the end of the war, during 1944 it converted to the Curtiss C-46 Commando as its primary aircraft.
The squadron moved forward with American forces to the Philippines in February 1945, and to Okinawa in August, continuing to fly supply missions to military in the area. It supported landing forces in the Ryuku Islands beginning in June. Following VJ Day, the squadron flew troops from the Philippines to Okinawa to stage for further movement to Japan and on return flights carried former Prisoners of War back to the Philippines.
In September 1945, the squadron moved to Tachikawa Airfield, where it served in the occupation forces in Japan. The squadron was inactivated with the other units of the 375th Group in March 1946, as the airlift mission at Tachikawa was taken over by the 317th Troop Carrier Group, which had arrived there in January 1946.
The squadron was activated in the reserves under Air Defense Command (ADC) at Reading Army Air Field, Pennsylvania in May 1947. It was again assigned to the 375th Group, which was located at Greater Pittsburgh Airport, Pennsylvania. Little more than two months after its activation, the squadron moved to Northeast Philadelphia Airport, Pennsylvania. It does not appear the squadron was fully manned or equipped at this time. In June 1949, Continental Air Command, which had assumed responsibility for managing reserve units from ADC in 1948, reorganized its reserve flying units under the wing base organizational system, which placed combat and support units on a base under a single commander. As part of this reorganization and also in response to President Truman's reduced 1949 defense budget which required reductions in the number of units in the Air Force, reserve flying operations at Northeast Philadelphia Airport were terminated and the squadron joined its parent group in Pittsburgh, replacing the 70th Troop Carrier Squadron.
The 55th, like all reserve combat units was mobilized for the Korean war. It was part of the first wave of mobilization, following the 452d Bombardment Wing and 437th Troop Carrier Wing, being called up in October 1950. Its parent 375th Troop Carrier Wing was assigned to Tactical Air Command, moving to Greenville Air Force Base, South Carolina upon mobilization where it began to equip with Fairchild C-82 Packets. Along with six C-46 reserve wings mobilized later, the 375th Wing formed TAC's Eighteenth Air Force. The squadron performed airlift support missions until July 1952, when it was relieved from active duty and replaced by the 17th Troop Carrier Squadron.
The same day it was inactivated, the squadron returned to the reserve in Pennsylvania where it replaced the 457th Troop Carrier Squadron, which had been activated at Greater Pittsburgh Airport the previous month when the reserve began to receive aircraft to replace the ones that had been transferred to the regular air force when the reserves were mobilized. The squadron trained as an airlift unit with C-46 Commandos until about 1954, then with Fairchild C-119 Flying Boxcars. Cuts in the budget in 1957 led to inactivation of three troop carrier wings, including the 375th and its component squadrons. On 16 November, the squadron was inactivated, as all the remaining resources of the 375th Wing were compressed into a single squadron, the 758th Troop Carrier Squadron, which was activated at Pittsburgh the same day.
The squadron was redesignated the 55th Airlift Flight and activated at Osan Air Base, South Korea on 1 July 1992. At Osan, it was assigned to the 51st Operations Group and equipped with Beechcraft C-12 Hurons. Its mission since activation has been to ferry VIPs and senior personnel throughout South Korea and the Pacific. The unit was inactivated at Osan Air Base on 1 July 2007.
Constituted as the 55th Troop Carrier Squadron on 12 November 1942
Activated in the reserve on 9 August 1947
Redesignated 55th Troop Carrier Squadron, Medium on 27 June 1949
Ordered to active duty on 15 October 1950
Redesignated 55th Airlift Flight and activated, on 1 July 1992
375th Troop Carrier Group, 18 November 1942 – 25 March 1946
375th Troop Carrier Group, 9 August 1947 – 14 July 1952
375th Troop Carrier Group, 14 July 1952 – 16 November 1957
51st Operations Group, 1 July 1992 – 1 July 2007
Curtiss C-46 Commando, 1944–1946, 1952-c. 1955
Fairchild C-119 Flying Boxcar c.. 1954–1957
List of United States Air Force airlift squadrons
This article incorporates public domain material from the Air Force Historical Research Agency
Cantwell, Gerald T. (1997). Citizen Airmen: a History of the Air Force Reserve, 1946–1994. Washington, D.C.: Air Force History and Museums Program. ISBN 0-16049-269-6. Retrieved 17 December 2016.
Knaack, Marcelle Size (1978). Encyclopedia of US Air Force Aircraft and Missile Systems (PDF). Vol. 2, Post-World War II Bombers 1945–1973. Washington, DC: Office of Air Force History. ISBN 0-912799-59-5. Retrieved 17 December 2016.
Maurer, Maurer, ed. (1983) [1961]. Air Force Combat Units of World War II (PDF) (reprint ed.). Washington, DC: Office of Air Force History. ISBN 0-912799-02-1. LCCN 61060979. Archived from the original (PDF) on 20 December 2016. Retrieved 17 December 2016.
Maurer, Maurer, ed. (1982) [1969]. Combat Squadrons of the Air Force, World War II (PDF) (reprint ed.). Washington, DC: Office of Air Force History. ISBN 0-405-12194-6. LCCN 70605402. OCLC 72556. Archived from the original (PDF) on 20 December 2016. Retrieved 17 December 2016.
Non-Resident Speculation Tax, a real-estate tax levied in the Golden Horseshoe
Nancy Grace Roman Space Telescope, NASA infrared satellite telescope
School of Natural Resources Science and Technology, former name of the Beaverton, Oregon, USA, high school School of Science and Technology
All pages with titles beginning with NRST
The Pañca-Parameṣṭhi (Sanskrit: पञ्चपरमेष्ठी, lit. 'five supreme beings') in Jainism is a fivefold hierarchy of religious authorities worthy of veneration.
Arihant: The awakened souls who have attained kevala jnana are considered as Arihants. The 24 tirthankaras or Jinas, the legendary founding figures of Jainism in the present time cycle, are Arihants. All tirthankaras are Arihants, but not all Arihants are tirthankaras.
Siddha (Ashiri): The souls which have been liberated from the birth and death cycle.
The five initials, viz. A+A+A+U+M are taken as forming the Aum syllable.
The more ancient canonical texts of the Śvetāmbara sect mention Pañca-Parameṣṭhi (five supreme beings) to be the venerable beings in the universe.
The Dravyasaṃgraha, a Digambara text, succinctly characterizes the five Supreme Beings (Pañca-Parameṣṭhi).
Definition of the World Teacher (Arhat) - verse 50.
Definition of the liberated souls (Siddha) - verses 51.
Definition of the Chief Preceptor (Acarya) - verse 52.
Definition of the Preceptor (Upadhyaya) - verse 53.
Definition of the Ascetic (Sadhu) - verse 54.
Meditate on, recite or chant the sacred mantras, consisting of thirty-five, sixteen, six, five, four, two and one letter(s), pronouncing the virtues of the five supreme beings (Pañca-Parameṣṭhi). Besides, meditate on and chant other mantras as per the teachings of the Preceptor (guru).
Having destroyed the four inimical varieties of karmas (ghātiyā karmas), possessed of infinite faith, happiness, knowledge and power, and housed in most auspicious body (paramaudārika śarīra), that pure soul of the World Teacher (Arhat) should be meditated on.
Johnson, Helen M. (1931), The 108 Qualities of the Pañcaparameṣṭhins (Appendix 1.5 of the Trishashti Shalaka Purusha Caritra), Baroda Oriental Institute
Jain, Vijay K. (2013), Ācārya Nemichandra's Dravyasaṃgraha, Vikalp Printers, ISBN 9788190363952, Non-copyright
Sangave, Vilas Adinath (1980), Jain Community: A Social Survey (2nd ed.), Bombay: Popular Prakashan, ISBN 978-0-317-12346-3
Spring Prairie (also Franklin) is an unincorporated community located in the town of Spring Prairie, Walworth County, Wisconsin, United States. Spring Prairie is located at the intersection of Wisconsin Highways 11 and 120, 7.25 miles (11.67 km) east of Elkhorn.
Media related to Spring Prairie, Wisconsin at Wikimedia Commons
The 33rd Army (Russian: 33-я армия) was a Soviet field army during the Second World War. It was disbanded and redesignated HQ Smolensk Military District in 1945.
It was initially formed in the Moscow Military District in July 1941, consisting of the 1st, 5th, 9th, 17th, and 21st Moscow People's Militia divisions, plus artillery and other support units. It conducted defensive operations as a part of the Mozhaisk Defence Line and the Soviet Reserve Front.
It was stationed at Naro-Fominsk under Lieutenant General Mikhail Yefremov in October 1941 when the town was captured by invading German forces.
With the arrival of the German 2nd Panzer Army at Kashira and its 4th Panzer Group at the Moskva-Volga Canal, the conditions for the German capture of Moscow were created. On 1 December 1941, the Germans attacked the centre of the Soviet front, just west of Moscow. Two German divisions with 70 tanks broke through 33rd Army's sector in the 222nd Rifle Division's area to the north of Naro-Fominsk. On December 2, in the second half of the day, in the 110th Rifle Division's sector, the Wehrmacht continued its offensive and attacked in the direction of Mogutovo. At 16:00, the 113th Rifle Division, together with a regiment from 43rd Army led a counteroffensive on Klotovo and Kamenskoe with the task of hitting the rear of the German attackers to help relieve pressure on the 110th Rifle Division. As a result of this counterstroke, the opponent was routed, and the Soviets captured 47 tanks and about 50 guns. From the west at Naro-Fominsk, the Germans advanced on Kubinka along the Minsk-Moscow highway, and then on Golitcin and Aprelevka, threatening the rear elements of 33rd Army and 5th Army. At the village of Akulovo German forces encountered the 32nd Rifle Division and were met with artillery fire.
When the 33rd Army was surrounded in 1942, Lieutenant General Yefremov committed suicide in order to avoid being captured. Following Yefremov's death, General Kirill Meretskov took command in May 1942.
At the Battle of Smolensk (1943), on 7 August 1943, 33rd Army launched an offensive at 6:30 a.m., intended to break through German lines and push toward Roslavl, following a preliminary bombardment at 4:40 a.m. This offensive followed a day of probing attacks that were meant to determine whether the Germans would choose to withdraw from their first set of trenches or not if they were attacked. Three armies (5th Army, 10th Guards Army and 33rd Army, now under General Vasily Gordov) were committed to the offensive, under the command of the Western Front.
However, the attack encountered heavy opposition and quickly stalled. German troops attempted numerous counterattacks from their well-prepared defense positions, supported by tanks, assault guns, and heavy guns and mortars. As Konstantin Rokossovsky recalls, "we literally had to tear ourselves through German lines, one by one". On the first day, the Soviet troops advanced only 4 kilometres (2.5 mi), with all available troops (including artillery, communications troops and engineers) committed to the attack.
Starting in April 1944, 33rd Army, under General Lieutenant Vasily Kryuchenkin, attempted to retake Belarus as part of the 2nd Belorussian Front during Operation Bagration. During the Mogilev Offensive, it successfully crossed the Dniepr and Pronya rivers, and liberated Shklov on 27 June. During the Minsk Offensive, the army, in conjunction with 49th Army and 50th Army, participated in the rout of the encircled Wehrmacht troops east of Minsk. Through the end of July and throughout August 1944, 33rd Army participated in the Kaunas Offensive, during which it cleared the approaches to East Prussia. On September 10, it was released from the reserves and joined the 1st Belorussian Front on October 19 in preparation for the Warsaw-Poznan Offensive.
On 25 December 1944 the Army consisted of the 16th Rifle Corps (89th "Tamanyan" Rifle Division, 339th Rifle Division, 383rd Rifle Division), 38th Rifle Corps (64th Rifle Division, 95th Rifle Division, 323rd Rifle Division), the 62nd Rifle Corps (49th Rifle Division, 222nd Rifle Division, 362nd Rifle Division), the 115th Fortified Region, 5th Artillery Division, and other support formations and units, including the 35th Motor Rifle Brigade, 20th Anti-Tank Artillery Brigade, 25th Guards Mortar Brigade, 305th Guards Mortar Regiment, 56th Guards Mortar Regiment, the 64th Anti-Aircraft Division, the 9th Tank Corps, the 244th and 257th Tank Regiments, and the 360th and 361st Self-Propelled Artillery Regiments.
On 1 May 1945 during the Battle of Berlin, 33rd Army, as part of the 1st Belorussian Front, consisted of the 16th Rifle Corps (323rd, 339th, 383rd Rifle Divisions), 62nd Rifle Corps (95th, 222nd, 362nd Rifle Divisions), 49th Rifle Division, 115th Fortified Region, 119th Fortified Region, and other support formations and units. After the initial Berlin breakthrough, 33rd Army, alongside other armies of the 1st Belorussian and 1st Ukrainian Fronts, helped to rout the surrounded German forces east of Berlin. Military operations for 33rd Army concluded on 6 May, and the Army HQ was redesignated HQ Smolensk Military District in August 1945.
The following officers commanded the army:
Kombrig Dmitry Onuprienko (20 July – 25 October 1941)
Lieutenant General Mikhail Grigoryevich Yefremov (25 October 1941 — April 1942)
Army General Kirill Meretskov (4 May — 8 June 1942)
Lieutenant General Mikhail Khozin (8 June–18 October 1942)
Lieutenant General Vasily Gordov (promoted to Colonel General 9 September 1943; 18 October 1942–13 March 1944)
Colonel General Ivan Yefimovich Petrov (13 March — 12 April 1944)
Lieutenant General Vasily Kryuchenkin (12 April–9 July 1944)
Lieutenant General Stepan Morozov (9 July–29 September 1944)
Colonel General Vyacheslav Tsvetayev (29 September 1944–after May 1945)
Beloborodov, Afanasy, ed. (1963). Военные кадры Советского государства в Великой Отечественной войне 1941 – 1945 гг [Military Leaders of the Soviet State in the Great Patriotic War 1941–1945] (in Russian). Moscow: Voenizdat.
I.Zhorov In rear of the enemy near Vyazma, ВИЖ, 1965, № 6.
Liverpool Cricket Club is a cricket club in the city of Liverpool, England. The club has had four home grounds and since 1880 has been at Aigburth Cricket Ground.
The club was founded in 1807 and was under the control of the merchants and ship owners of Liverpool, many of whom had been slave traders. The early history of the club was heavily influenced by the slave owner and railway director Hardman Earle.
The club's most famous player is Ken Cranston, the former England Cricket Team captain. Noel Chavasse, a member, died in service during World War I, he was one of only three men to be awarded the Victoria Cross twice.
Banastre Tarleton, veteran of the American Revolutionary War and Member of Parliament for Liverpool, is credited with introducing cricket to the city in the late 18th century. The first recorded game played in Liverpool was in the year 1800 on a ground known as Mosslake Field which was at Mount Pleasant. The players wore white trousers, linen shirts and a tall black hat known as a Billycock.
The club was formed in 1807 as the Mosslake Field Cricket Society. Membership cost 7 shillings and players were fined six pence for being late to matches. It is apparent from newspaper articles that other clubs existed in Liverpool at this time. The first game reported in a newspaper was written in the Leeds Intelligencer on 30 August 1812. The match between Liverpool and Rochdale concluded in a 42 run victory for the latter.
In 1822, the club was playing other teams such as Chester and Brunswick. The club was under the control of the merchants and ship owners of Liverpool, many of whom had been slave traders or were current owners of slaves in British overseas colonies. In the same year, the members rewrote the rules to ensure they kept control of the club. The members went on to forge close trading links with the city of Manchester, using cricket as a vehicle to do so. When Manchester Cricket Club was formed, Liverpool quickly set up a match.
One of the Liverpool players was Hardman Earle, a railway man, who was involved in the creation of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway line. The Earle family were steeped in the slave trade and were involved in the club from its inception, Hardman Earle owned slave plantations in modern day Guyana.
In 1828, the club moved from Mosslake Field to their second ground at Tunnel Road, Edge Hill. The Liverpool and Manchester Railway line opened in 1830, with a station at the club's new ground, most likely placed there by Hardman Earle. In 1846, the railway line was absorbed into the London and North-Western Railway, this allowed perishable goods to be shipped into Liverpool more easily and consequently the ground was sold and became a fruit and vegetable depot.
In 1845, the club moved to their third ground, a plot of land leased from Hardman Earle on his Spekefield Estate. The estate had been given to Hardman Earle by his father Thomas Earle, who had been one of Liverpool's most prolific slave traders. The early matches at this ground were between Liverpool and Manchester, or other clubs the members deemed to have a high social standing. The members built a pavilion and employed caterers to cook food, in later years a stone wall was built around the ground allowing spectators to be charged to watch as they came through a gate. In 1847, the fourteen of Liverpool took on a precursor to the England Cricket team, known then as the XI of England, with the match ending in a draw. The members continued to use the club to promote their business interests, many of them were involved in the cotton trade, importing raw cotton from overseas slave colonies, then shipping it to Manchester to be turned into linen for re-export from the Port of Liverpool.
In 1859, their status as Liverpool's leading club was confirmed by a visit from the prestigious Zingari Cricket Club. Zingari visited again in 1861, after this match the satirical magazine Porcupine wrote that the Liverpool team had selected players based upon their social standing rather than their cricketing ability. A rival publication, the Saturday Review, took the opposite opinion writing that the Zingari team had selected players who Lord Sefton had wanted to dine with, as the whole team were staying with him on his estate.
In 1864, the club was involved in the creation of Lancashire County Cricket Club. In 1877, their ground was sold and for three years they had no regular home. William Molyneux, 4th Earl of Sefton, became aware of the club's lack of a ground and offered the use of his own private cricket ground in front of Croxteth Hall while they looked for a permanent home.
In 1880, with the help of its members, their fourth and current ground was secured in Aigburth. The ground was owned by a company called the Liverpool and South West Lancashire Cricket Company, with Liverpool Cricket Club leasing the ground from them. The owners of the ground included Hardman Earle's son, Sir Thomas Earle Second Baronet, the Earl of Lathom and many other wealthy Liverpool families. This arrangement lasted until 1904 when the owners sold the ground to Liverpool Cricket Club and sent the company into liquidation. The ground was purchased for the sum of £2,000.
In 1881, the club played its first match at the ground against a local team called Dingle. The away team were captained by Henry Miller, a respected all-rounder and former pupil of Uppingham School. The crowd paid six pence to watch. The Liverpool innings was opened by G Dunlop with the match abandoned because of rain. The press recorded the match saying the ground looked admirable. In 1882, the club scored a then record 500 runs in less than five hours. Later in the season, Liverpool and District played the Australia team in a five day match. In 1899, Liverpool played Cambridge University, winning by 200 runs.
In 1913, Mr H H Hornby, President and member of the club for 65 years passed away. The Hornby family had been members since the club's outset and the death was more keenly felt because the country was on the brink of World War I. A year later, the country was at war and many of its members went off to the front lines. Frederick Harding Turner was the first player who was a casualty. He was shot and killed on 10 January 1915 while supervising a barbed wire arrangement near Ypres in Belgium. The most famous member of Liverpool Cricket Club to die in service was Noel Chavasse, who was one of only three men to be awarded the Victoria Cross twice. The club named the Chavasse Room in the pavilion in his honour.
During World War II the RAF anchored a barrage balloon at the top ground and the Royal Navy occupied the lower ground. The German Luftwaffe attacked Liverpool between 1940 and 1942 and on one occasion they hit the road bridge between the upper and lower grounds. The windows of the pavilion were blown in and the canteen roof destroyed. The club hosted cricket games between military teams to maintain morale.
Liverpool's most celebrated player is Ken Cranston, he was born in Aigburth, Liverpool and came through the junior ranks with the club before moving to Neston CC. He holds the unusual distinction of captaining Lancashire County Cricket Club on his debut. He played eight Test matches for the England cricket team between 1947 and 1948, and captained them twice. In 1993, he became President of Lancashire County Cricket Club.
The pavilion was for men only until 1975, and a sign on the balcony of the pavilion read: 'Dogs and ladies not allowed'. The club is the oldest sporting establishment in the city.
Onslow, Tony; Sturgeon, John (2007). Dogs and Ladies Not Allowed: The 200 Year History of Liverpool Cricket Club. Countryvise Limited. ISBN 978-1901231847.
The Anderson was a United States automobile; considered the most successful automobile ever built in the Southern United States, it was manufactured by a carriage works from 1916 to 1925 in Rock Hill, South Carolina. Started by John Gary Anderson, the company sold cars through a national dealer network. The company used Continental 7R flathead six engines in its vehicles, which were noted for their attractive body styles and color combinations. Andersons were the first cars to be built with headlight foot dimmers and powered convertible tops. Production reached nearly 2,000 units in 1923 and in all 7,000 vehicles were produced during the life of the company.
There are a number of reasons why the Anderson Automobile Co. failed. According to Edward Lee, who wrote the 2007 book John Gary Anderson and His Maverick Motor Company: The Rise and Fall of Henry Ford's Rock Hill Rival, the vehicle suffered from a defective engine. Anderson bought most of the components from other manufacturers. During the later years of production, Anderson used a Continental engine with an aluminum head and it warped at high temperatures.
Price was also an issue, Lee believes. Model T Fords were selling for as little as $290 in the 1920s, making the cars affordable to the majority of Americans. Andersons cost about $1,650 for a five-passenger touring car and $2,550 for a sedan. Anderson's slogan was a "A little Higher in Price but made in Dixie." Anderson's strategy was to invest in the opulence of his vehicles, hoping that consumers would be willing to pay a higher price in return. The strategy failed because customers were more price-sensitive than Anderson anticipated.
In addition, by the early 1920s, the economy of South Carolina and other Southern states were already declining, well ahead of the Great Depression, because of plummeting cotton prices following World War I. The Anderson Automobile Co. was liquidated in 1926. Later in life, John Gary Anderson criticized the city of Rock Hill for failing to give his company financial assistance.
Today, there are just 13 remaining examples of Anderson vehicles in existence. Of those Anderson cars known to exist, four are owned by the Anderson family, one is at the South Carolina State Museum in Columbia and one is in the possession of the Museum of York County, where Rock Hill is located.
Anderson Model 202 (1916) six passenger Touring
John Gary Anderson and His Maverick Motor Company: The Rise and Fall of Henry Ford's Rock Hill Rival, J. Edward Lee, The History Press, February 27, 2007
The Gill was an English car based on the Astra and built in George Street, Paddington, London from 1958 to 1960 by a subsidiary of the British Anzani Company. It was another product of the fuel shortages that occurred during the 1956 Suez Crisis.
Like the Astra it featured a rear-mounted 322 cc air-cooled engine mounted under the floor at the rear and all-round independent suspension with swing axles at the rear. Drive was by chain to the rear wheels through a three-speed motorcycle gearbox with floor-mounted change lever. The brakes were hydraulically operated.
The two seat body was made from aluminium over a wood frame mounted on a steel chassis. It shared the Astra's front bodywork but from the windscreen back it was bodied as a coupé called the Getabout. A four-seat taxi version was also proposed and some saloons might have been made. At £500 (£523 for the de-luxe) the car was expensive when a Ford Popular cost £444.
List of car manufacturers of the United Kingdom
Durankaya (Kurdish: Gelî) is a village in the Şirvan District of Siirt Province in Turkey. The village had a population of 548 in 2021.
The hamlets of Ozdoğan, Sevinç and Sevindik are attached to the village.
Adriano Manuel Vieira da Luz (born 9 April 1959) is a Portuguese actor. He has appeared in more than 90 films since 1987.
Rurouni Kenshin - Sagara Sanosuke (Ep. 62-90)
X-Men: The Animated Series - Beast, Magneto
Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes - Leader, Ultron, Iron Fist, Star-Lord
Zapyškis (Polish: Sapieżyszki, Yiddish: סאַפּיזישאָק Sapizishok) is a small town in Kaunas County in central Lithuania on the left bank of the Nemunas River. As of 2011 it had a population of 264.
The town is famous for its old early Gothic church (built between 1530 and 1578), which is depicted in town's coat of arms. A new church was built in 1942. According to tradition, the village was originally the location of one of the larger pagan temples of the Baltic tribes.
The town before 17 c. was called Panemunė, later Tarpupis and after that Sapieżyszki in Polish or Sapiegiškis in Lithuanian it is believed was named after the Sapieha family, erstwhile mighty boyars of Smolensk and later a princely family active in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. The grounds of the former pagan temple were donated to Paweł Sapieha by king of Poland Sigismund I the Old. The earlier founded a church on the ruins of the old temple and founded a new settlement there, named after himself. In the settlement, the Sapiehas also built a manor, which however did not survive to modern times.
In early 17th century Andrzej Sapieha, the voivode of Polotsk, Nowogródek and Smolensk Voivodeship, sold the village to Grzegorz Massalski, the cup-bearer of Grodno. His son, Aleksander left it to his daughter, who joined the Bernardine monastery near Kaunas. Until the partitions of Poland the monastery remained the owner of the village of Sapieżyszki. However, in 1795 the Prussian authorities secularised the convent and confiscated all of its properties. In 1812, during Napoleonic Wars, the church was partially demolished by French forces who used it as a stable. In mid-19th century the town had 564 inhabitants, many were Jewish.
On September 4, 1941, Jews of the town were murdered in a mass execution on the western outskirts of the town. An Einsatzgruppe with local Lithuanian collaborators perpetrated the mass execution. There were a few Germans with cameras at the site. According to the Jäger Report, 178 Jews were shot in Zapyškis: 47 men, 118 women and 13 children.
The murder of the Jews of Zapyškis during World War II, at Yad Vashem website.
The Glenshaw Formation is a mapped sedimentary bedrock unit in Pennsylvania, Maryland, West Virginia, and Ohio, of Pennsylvanian age. It is the lower of two formations in the Conemaugh Group, the upper being the Casselman Formation. The boundary between these two units is the top of the marine Ames Limestone. The Conemaugh Group overlies the Upper Freeport coal bed of the Allegheny Formation and underlies the Pittsburgh coal seam of the Monongahela Group.
The Conemaugh Group consists of cyclic sequences of shale, siltstone, sandstone, red beds, thin impure limestone, and thin nonpersistent coal. Red beds are associated with landslides.
The thickness of the Conemaugh Group averages about 400 feet in Ohio, and it ranges from 450 feet on the Ohio River in West Virginia to 520 feet in Washington County, Pennsylvania, and then to 890 feet in Somerset County, Pennsylvania.
The Glenshaw formation was originally mapped in Pennsylvania by Flint, but was extended into West Virginia by Cardwell et al. in 1968. It is also recognized in eastern Ohio.
Savion Einstein (Hebrew: סביון איינשטיין) is an Israeli screenwriter and producer. The daughter of the late sports broadcaster Meir Einstein, she has written numerous advertisements and screenplays. Her work has been recognised with several honours, including a Joplin Award and a nomination for the Nicholl Fellowships in Screenwriting. In 2018, her screenplay Superfecundation was sold to Sony's production company Screen Gems.
The advertisements Einstein produced, among them, Fox Fashion's Forever Young with Bar Refaeli and Noam Tor, Of Tov’s (Good Chicken) with Dror Keren, and First International Bank's Popcorn with Assi Cohen, won the Golden Cactus and Effie Awards. From 2012 to 2013, Einstein served as a film critic on the website "Seret" ("Film"), where she reviewed films such as "At Any Price", "Blue Jasmine", "Take This Waltz", and "Killing Them Softly", to name a few.
In 2007, Einstein interned as a script reader at the production company of Academy Award winning screenwriter and producer Steve Zaillian. In 2014, Einstein relocated to Los Angeles. That same year, a screenplay Einstein wrote won the Joplin Award in the BlueCat Screenplay Competition and she was selected from thousands of screenwriters to participate in "The Black List" feature writing lab where she was mentored by screenwriters Max Borenstein and Jessica Bendinger. In 2017, she was included in Tracking Board’s “Young & Hungry” list, highlighting Hollywood’s most promising screenwriters.
In 2016, “Superfecundation”, a screenplay for a romantic comedy written by Einstein reached the semi-finals at the Academy Awards’ Nicholl Fellowships in Screenwriting and won second place at the CineStory Feature Screenplay Competition. In 2018, the script was sold to Sony’s Screen Gems and is being produced by Brownstone, Elizabeth Banks and Max Handelman’s production company
2019 - Marriage Material (series, co-wrote with Oran Zegman)
Constance Wu Could Star in Savion Einstein Comedy, mxdwn
Spec Script Deal: “The Longest Birthday”, medium
"ידעתי שמאיר ירים ידיים כשלא יוכל לשדר יותר", yediot
Rumorville: Jordan Peele-Produced Nazi Hunter Amazon Series ‘The Hunt’ Eyes Its Lead + More Projects To Watch, Backstage
"סוני" רכשה תסריט מסביון איינשטיין, בתו של מאיר איינשטיין, maariv
Writers SA, registered as SA Writers' Centre Inc. and formerly known as the South Australian Writers' Centre (SAWC) and also known as the SA Writers Centre, is a resource centre for writers located in Adelaide, South Australia. Established in 1985, it was the first such centre in Australia. Its newsletter for members, produced from 1997 to 2014, was called Southern Write.
The centre was established in 1985, the first and prototype of many subsequent writers' centres throughout Australia. One of its co-founders, and its first chair, was Andrew Taylor. It was situated at 187 Rundle Street.
From 1 December 2017 the Centre changed its name to Writers SA. With the rebranding came a move to the State Library of South Australia’s Institute Building, and plans to extend its reach, which would include "more free events, more writing workshops and three targeted year-long programs for writers at all stages of their careers".
The not-for-profit organisation exists to encourage and support writers of all ages and experience. It works with a range of other organisations to promote and encourage writers and literature in society. Members of the public can participate in many of their workshops, but membership of Writers SA gives access to additional services and discounts, including advice, information and support; opportunities for writing as a career, such as a professional referral service and a means for publication and promotion; access to other professionals of all kinds in the industry.
The organisation is a registered charitable organisation. It is funded by the Australian Government through the Australia Council, the Government of South Australia through Arts SA, both governments and other sponsors via Country Arts SA, corporate sponsors through advertising, and members' subscriptions and donations.
In February 2024 Laura Kroetsch, who directed Adelaide Writers' Week from 2011 to 2018, was appointed CEO by the chair, Tanya Wilkins.
The South Australian Writers' Centre co-hosted the biennial South Australian Writers' Festival (2001–2011), renamed the South Australian Readers' and Writers' Festival (2013–2015) with the City of Onkaparinga.
The City of Salisbury, the SA Writers' Centre and the Salisbury Library Service have co-hosted the Salisbury Writers' Festival since 2005.
From May 2014 until December 2016, Writers SA ran a blog curated by an Australian writer, rotating every few months, known as the Writer in Residence.
In 2018, the Writers and Readers in Residence Project was launched "in which South Australian and international writers undertake an artistic residency in regional communities to activate reading as well as writing in the town". With funding assistance from the Australian Government through the Australia Council for the Arts, the programme was intended to take place from 2018 to 2020. Participating writers included Bernice Chauly, Jane Howard, Karen Wyld, and Manal Younus in 2018, and Alexis West, Whiti Hereaka, Royce Kurmelovs, and Jennifer Mills in 2019.
Southern Write, formerly S.A.W.C.: Newsletter of the South Australian Writers' Centre, or Writers' Centre Newsletter (February 1997-September 1997), was produced monthly from December 2003 until February 2012 and then quarterly until June 2014.
"Monday musings on Australian literature: Writers SA". Whispering Gums. 5 August 2019.
The Women's 25K race at the 2006 FINA World Open Water Swimming Championships was swum on Saturday, September 2, 2006 in Naples, Italy. It was the fifth event of the 2006 Open Water Worlds. 13 females were entered in the event, 12 of whom swam.
2004 FINA World Open Water Swimming Championships – Women's 25K
Open water swimming at the 2007 World Aquatics Championships – Women's 25 km
2008 FINA World Open Water Swimming Championships – Women's 25K
Buğra is a Turkish name and may refer to:
Buğra Gülsoy (born 1982), Turkish actor, screenwriter, producer, architect, director, graphic designer and photographer
Buğra Selimzade (born 1988), Turkish sport shooter
Buğra Ünal (born 1997), Turkish Olympian modern pentathlete
Ekrem Buğra Ekinci (born 1966), Turkish academic in History of Turkish Law and Islamic Law
Rahman Buğra Çağıran, (born 1995), Turkish football player
Abdullah Bughra, emir of First East Turkestan Republic
Muhammad Amin Bughra, father of Abdulla Bugra
Tarık Buğra (1918–1994), Turkish journalist, novelist and short story author
Buğra, Kalecik, a village in the District of Kalecik, Ankara Province, Turkey
Ion Rîmaru ([iˈon rɨˈmaru]; modern spelling Râmaru; 12 October 1946 – 23 October 1971) was a Romanian serial killer dubbed the Vampire of Bucharest (Vampirul din București) or the Blondes' Killer (criminalul blondelor). Rîmaru terrorized Bucharest between 1970 and 1971, killing four women and attacking more than ten others. Authorities had made over 2,500 arrests before his capture. The women were attacked with an axe, bitten on their breasts and thighs, and raped after they were already dead.
Ion Rîmaru was the oldest of three boys born to parents who married in Caracal. His parents argued almost daily; the couple eventually separated and his father, Florea, moved to Bucharest, taking a job as a night tram driver. After his death years later, Florea himself was discovered to have been a serial killer.
Rîmaru performed poorly academically and was forced to repeat the ninth grade. From adolescence, he exhibited an uncontrollable libido and caused a public scandal in his hometown when he was found to be having a sexual relationship with the underage daughter of his teacher. At age 18, he was convicted of aggravated theft. Nevertheless, during high school, Rîmaru always received a perfect grade in conduct.
Rîmaru entered the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine in 1966 with a grade of 5.33 (out of 10). He repeated his second year there. At the time of his arrest, Rîmaru was in the course of repeating his third year.
Although he had entered a university, one of Rîmaru's professors described him as shy and semi-literate, with a very poor vocabulary and an extremely narrow range of interests. His roommates reported that he behaved strangely, so they avoided him. When he became enraged, Rîmaru would harm himself; he was found to have over twenty cuts on his arms and legs. A university classmate reported that one night, at the dormitory, Rîmaru did not sleep but instead prowled outside a room where he knew a girl had come to visit a classmate. Doctors diagnosed him with esophageal spasm, reactive nervous syndrome and mental problems in 1967.
In late 1970 and early 1971, Bucharest was shaken by a series of crimes committed by an unknown individual who would use a hammer, a small axe, and an iron bar or a knife to attack restaurant waitresses who were alone and returning from work. He struck after midnight during unusual weather conditions such as snowstorms, driving rain, high winds, freezing cold or fog. Many women would not go outside after 9:00 pm except in large groups or with men. Their terror was heightened by the police's reluctance to release details, leading to wildly exaggerated rumours. The country's police force, which was at the time the Miliția, eventually realized that they were dealing with a serial killer; a yearlong investigation, with the help of victims who had survived, led to Rîmaru's arrest on 27 May 1971.
However, the clue which led directly to Rîmaru's arrest was a medical diagnosis sheet. On 4 March 1971, a group of six doctors found that he had "suspected periodic epilepsy"; the doctors' note was found beneath the body of Mihaela Ursu, whom he murdered in an especially brutal fashion two months later. Between her fingers, she had strands of his hair that were used to identify him (some have suggested that he went to the doctors to eventually be able to claim insanity at trial). Because the note was wet and bloody, only the letterhead from the Bucharest Students' Hospital was visible.
At this point the criminal began acting more randomly, not attacking waitresses exclusively and even going after two women who were together. On 15 May specialists determined that the note had been produced in Octavian Ieniște's office in March 1971. He had seen 83 students that month, of whom 15, including Rîmaru, had not deposited their diagnoses with university officials. The Miliția closely monitored each suspect and three officers went to his dormitory on 27 May; he was not home but while they searched his room he came back at 1:00 pm. In his sack he had an axe and a knife; tests on the hair and bite marks he left and the testimony of witnesses left no reasonable doubt as to his guilt.
The 16 gravest offences of which Rîmaru was convicted are, chronologically:
8/9 April 1970 – Elena Oprea – premeditated murder (not raped because a neighbour scared him away)
1/2 June 1970 – Florica Marcu – rape (knocked unconscious in front of her house, carried to Sfânta Vineri cemetery, pushed hard off the fence there, raped, stabbed and had her blood sucked while walking home with him, saved by a truck driver)
19/20 July 1970 – OCL Confecția store – theft of public property
24 July 1970 – Margareta Hanganu – aggravated theft
22/23 November 1970 – Olga Bărăitaru – aggravated attempted murder, rape and aggravated theft
15/16 February 1971 – Gheorghița Sfetcu – aggravated attempted murder and aggravated theft
17/18 February 1971 – Elisabeta Florea – aggravated attempted murder
4/5 March 1971 – Fănica Ilie – aggravated premeditated murder, rape and aggravated theft
8/9 April 1971 – Gheorghița Popa – aggravated murder, rape and aggravated theft (48 stab wounds to the head, chest, groin and legs, five blows to the head, ribs crushed by stomping, genitalia bitten out)
1/2 May 1971 – Stana Saracin – attempted rape
4/5 May 1971 – Mihaela Ursu – aggravated murder, rape (he was interrupted in the act and left unsatisfied, leading him to seek a new victim)
4/5 May 1971 – Maria Iordache – aggravated attempted murder (attacked two hours after Ursu; escaped when he dropped the metal bar with which he was beating her while she was running)
6/7 May 1971 – Viorica Tatu – aggravated attempted murder
6/7 May 1971 – Elena Buluci – aggravated attempted murder
May 1971 – Iuliana Funzinschi – aggravated theft of public property and aggravated theft of private property.
After the murder of Popa, a waitress, the authorities went on high alert, launching "Operation Vulture", named after the street where she had been murdered. 6,000 men from various law-enforcement agencies patrolled the streets of Bucharest each night, as well as 100 cars and 40 motorcycles. Medical personnel, night bus and tram operators, hotel and bar employees – all were mobilized, not to mention great numbers of Miliția, Securitate, and Interior Ministry staff. 2,565 arrests were made and over 8,000 individuals were asked for identification, but Rîmaru would commit one more murder and attempt to commit several more before being arrested.
Authorities rated Rîmaru's modus operandi as ferocious and cruel, based on his propensity for cutting off clothes, biting off flesh, dragging his victims, and hacking away at them with his weapons, also raping them while they were unconscious. Rîmaru was judged to be aggressive, impulsive and sadistic. He showed signs of vampirism; for instance, he poked several holes into the flesh of Florica Marcu, who later related how he sucked blood out of them. Cannibalism was also present; he would bite off women's vaginas, pubic areas and breasts, and the missing pieces of flesh were no longer found at the crime scenes. Additionally, he had necrophiliac tendencies, continuing his rapes after his victims had died and also beating and stabbing their corpses.
After his arrest, Rîmaru remained completely silent, staring expressionlessly into space. The investigators went into an office to decide on a plan; they introduced a Miliția officer who pretended to be a thief into his cell and got him to talk.
After two months of interrogations, Rîmaru admitted to 23 very serious crimes. In fact, he had been arrested for only three murders; the rest (another murder, six attempted murders, five rapes, one attempted rape, and seven thefts of various degrees) he or his father confessed to. On one hand, he tried to convince the authorities that he was not responsible on the grounds of insanity, and that he did not realize the women would die; on the other hand, he insisted he was guilty, asking to be taken to the scenes of his crimes. During police lineups, victims brought in to identify him would tremble when their eyes met his, despite there being no danger to them now. Allegedly, for the public at large, Rîmaru's name itself inspired a vague dread; rîmă/râmă means "earthworm" in Romanian.
The authorities believed that suggestive remarks from his father, who knew all about his son's crimes, had led him to commit violence. During the investigation, his father was arrested three times but released because close relatives could not be forced to testify against other family members. After Ion's last crime, when he robbed a cashier, his mother visited him and found the money under his pillow. His father made him go to the crime scene and showed him what he had done. He then took the money and placed it in his Caracal home, intending to use it to buy a new house. His father was first brought into the police station during one of Ion's silent phases; the son merely gave his father an ugly look, prompting the latter to say "How should I know what you did? How?" But he had reason to suspect it, as he had been washing his son's bloody clothes after the attacks. After Ion robbed the cashier, Florea confiscated the axe and knife and it was with these that he was secretly returning when he was arrested.
Rîmaru, whose trial drew significant public attention, thought he had convinced investigators of his insanity defence. He was apparently shocked when he read the report stating that his judgment was not impaired by mental illness, and that he did not suffer from hallucinations, delirium, or similar conditions. He immediately changed his plea, recanting his previous confessions in their entirety; thenceforth, he refused to answer even his lawyer's questions.
Eventually, Rîmaru was sentenced to death by judge Theodor Câmpeanu. The courtroom erupted in applause when the penalty was pronounced. He appealed, but the Supreme Tribunal upheld the sentence.
On 23 October 1971, Rîmaru was taken to Jilava Prison in a van. He had to be dragged to the place of execution from the moment he left the van. Until he was dead, he was in a rage and vigorously tried to escape. The three officers charged with shooting him tied him to a post in the prison yard. Asked, in accordance with the law, if he had any last wishes, he said no. The men noticed him become more agitated, trying to bite off his clothes and twisting around the post. He yelled, "Call my father, so he can see what's happening to me! Make him come! He's the only guilty one!" and "I want to live!" Because of his constant movement, it was difficult to aim accurately and in the end, his backside was riddled with bullets (as he had turned all the way around). He was buried in the town cemetery; his grave remains unmarked.
A psychologist, Tudorel Butoi, viewed tapes of Rîmaru's interrogations several years after his execution. In Butoi's opinion, Rîmaru's crimes were a form of compensation for the inferiority complex he had felt since his youth: he was relatively poor, a social misfit, and had had dysfunctional relations with women.
At the time, Rîmaru was labelled a "wolf-man", and Butoi theorizes that he suffered from a form of clinical lycanthropy. As evidence, he cites his solitary nocturnal prowling and stalking, the instinctual animalistic energy he drew from unusual weather conditions, and how he considered his victims as prey. Rîmaru would figure out his victims' route, following them home several nights in a row, and attack them when they were almost home. Butoi rejects Rîmaru's claim to have tried to engage a woman in ordinary conversation one night as "merely dissimulations, perverse excuses".
Rîmaru's father Florea was also a serial killer. In the summer of 1944, a string of four murders rocked wartime Bucharest. Each victim (all were female) lived in a basement apartment, where the criminal would enter at night during a storm and bash their heads with a blunt object. Each time, the killer left fingerprints and footprints from military boots of size 42 or 43. On 23 October 1972, a year after his son's execution, Florea Rîmaru died at age 53 after falling off a train. This was officially an accident, but some authors suggest he might have been eliminated by Securitate agents, though the reason for this alleged assassination remains unclear. His body was brought to the Medico-Legal Institute, where the man's height of 174 cm and his shoe size of 42 attracted attention: the 1944 fingerprints matched his. Both their first victims even had similar names: Florea first killed Elena Udrea, while his son Ion killed first Elena Oprea. Butoi, the psychologist, theorised that a gene predisposing one to violent crimes was passed from father to son, as the murders happened under remarkably similar circumstances.
Cristina Hurdubaia (16 August 2004). "Rîmaru a țopăit printre gloanțe, pe după stâlp" [Rîmaru Jumped through Bullets behind the Post]. Jurnalul Național (in Romanian). Retrieved 28 February 2022.
(in Romanian) Ofelia Herghelegiu, "Râmaru, vampirul din Bucureşti" ("Râmaru, the Vampire of Bucharest"), Timopolis
(in Romanian) Adina Mutar, "Secretul lui Ion Râmaru" ("Ion Râmaru's Secret"), Ziarul
(in Romanian) Adina Mutar, "Moștenirea lui Ion Râmaru" ("Ion Râmaru's Inheritance"), Ziarul
The Irish Socialist was a monthly newspaper produced by the Communist Party of Ireland, originally published starting in December 1965 by the Irish Workers' Party prior to its merger with the Communist Party of Northern Ireland and relaunch as the Communist Party of Ireland.
Contributors to the newspaper included Sam Nolan, Eoin Ó Murchú, Betty Sinclair, Michael O'Riordan, John McDonnell, James Stewart, Mick O'Reilly, Eugene McCartan and John Montegomery. The party also published the Irish Socialist Review quarterly and the youth movement produced a magazine called Forward. It was published from 37 Pembroke Lane, before being published from New Books, 16A Pearse St, then 14 Parliament Street, Dublin and then Connolly Books, East Essex Street, in Dublin, and printed by Dorset Press.
The Communist Party of Ireland's current official newspaper is the Socialist Voice.
La porta rossa ([la ˈpɔrta ˈrossa], lit. 'The Red Door') is an Italian noir television series created by Carlo Lucarelli and Giampiero Rigosi for Rai Fiction. It premiered on Rai 2 on February 22, 2017 and concluded on February 1, 2023, having aired 32 episodes over three seasons.
The pilot episode attracted the largest audience of the night, amassing 3.284 million viewers, more than double the network average at the time. The series was praised for being "the only [Italian] mainstream TV crime series that resembles genre literature and not a mainstream TV drama", its "modern and demanding" visuals and dark setting, but its second season was criticized as "excessively distressing".
Trieste. Leonardo Cagliostro (Lino Guanciale), an impulsive police commissioner not at all inclined to follow procedures and directives dictated by his superiors, is investigating the most difficult case of his career: his own murder.
In fact, Cagliostro was killed during a solitary police action, but, instead of walking through the red door leading to the afterlife, he chose to stay in the earthly world, thus becoming a ghost, to find his killer: this is the only way he'll be able to save his estranged wife, magistrate Anna Mayer (Gabriella Pession), who, according to some visions that Cagliostro has been having since his death, will be murdered by the same killer during the Christmas season. He is helped by Vanessa Rosic (Valentina Romani), a 17-year-old student who finds out she can communicate with the dead and is the only one who can see and hear him, and Jonas Sala (Andrea Bosca), a fellow ghost who helps Cagliostro to get used to his new condition.
Cagliostro soon finds out that his killer, most likely, is one of his colleagues, who would therefore be leading a double life linked to the trafficking of a new lethal drug plaguing Trieste, the Red Ghost, that the commissioner was investigating just before being killed. However, all of his colleagues seem to have something to hide and therefore are all possible suspects. Even Antonio Piras (Ettore Bassi), Anna's colleague who has always been in love with her and always harbored a mutual, ill-concealed hatred towards Cagliostro, and Anna's father, Elvio (Tommaso Ragno), who never approved of their wedding, seem to have skeletons in their closets.
Lino Guanciale as Leonardo "Leo" Cagliostro: an impulsive police commissioner
Gabriella Pession as Anna Mayer: Cagliostro's magistrate wife
Valentina Romani as Vanessa Rosic: a 17-year-old high school student who can communicate with the dead
Gaetano Bruno as Diego Paoletto: policeman and Cagliostro's colleague
Elena Radonicich as Stella Mariani: policewoman and Cagliostro's former lover
Pierpaolo Spollon as Filip Vesna: Vanessa's friend
Cecilia Dazzi as Eleonora Pavesi: Vanessa's mother
Alessia Barela as Stefania Pavesi: Vanessa's aunt
Lavinia Longhi as Beatrice Mayer: Anna's sister
Daniela Scarlatti as Adele Mayer: Anna's mother
Antonio Gerardi as Stefano Rambelli (seasons 1–2): deputy commissioner who was like a father figure to Cagliostro
Fausto Sciarappa as Valerio Lorenzi (seasons 1–2): Cagliostro's colleague and best friend
Ettore Bassi as Antonio Piras (seasons 1–2): Anna's colleague
Pia Lanciotti as Patrizia Durante (seasons 1–2): Raffaele's mother
Paola Benocci as Caterina Lorenzi (seasons 1–2): Valerio's wife
Massimo Palazzini as don Giulio Giannini (seasons 1–2): priest and Valerio Lorenzi's confessor
Tommaso Ragno as Elvio Mayer (seasons 1–2): Anna's father
Andrea Bosca as Jonas Sala (seasons 1–2): a ghost who helps Cagliostro after his death. Cagliostro's biological father
Carmine Recano as Federico (season 2): waiter and Vanessa's friend, also able to communicate with the dead
Ivan Zerbinati as Albertini (seasons 2–3)
Raniero Monaco di Lapio as Raffaele Gherardi (season 1): a rich guy who dates Vanessa for a while. He is killed by Rambelli
Roberto Gudese as Davide Rambelli (season 1): Stefano's son
Yuliya Mayarchuk as Helena Cassian (season 1): stripper and Cagliostro's former informant
Catrinel Marlon as Helke (season 1): Piras's girlfriend
Valentina Munafò as Federica (season 1-3): Vanessa's former best friend and Filip's girlfriend
Federica Girardello as Ilaria (season 1): Vanessa's friend
Sandra Franzo as Mrs. Raspadori (season 1)
Edoardo Ribatto as Eugenio Pertusi "il Messicano" (lit. 'The Mexican') (season 1): drug trafficker
Santo Bellina as Michele Rizzo (season 1): drug trafficker
Fortunato Cerlino as Marco Jamonte (season 2): deputy commissioner
Antonia Liskova as Silvia Pes (season 2): Jonas's girlfriend. Cagliostro's biological mother
Raffaella Rea as Lucia Bugatti (season 2): journalist and Paoletto's lover
Alessandro Averone as Matteo Silvestrin (season 2): Enrico's son
Benedetta Cimatti as Erika Jamonte (season 2): Marco Jamonte's daughter
Claudio Corinaldesi as Mauro Brezigar (season 2): criminal
Ivan Franek as Emin Vesna (season 2): Filip's father
Fausto Russo Alesi as Attorney Scaglianti (season 2): Rambelli's defense lawyer
Luciano Virgilio as Renato Silvestrin (season 2)
Anita Kravos as Lana Vesna (season 2): Filip's mother
Giorgia Senesi as Doctor Poropat (season 2)
Fulvio Falzarano as Judge Tagliaferri (season 2)
Linda Gennari as Daria (season 2): Paoletto's wife
Michel Schermi as Josif Struna (season 2)
Veronika Logan as Deputy prosecutor Longhi (season 2)
Roberto Citran as Vittorio Alessi (season 2): prosecutor
Paolo Mazzarelli as Luka Levani (season 3): custodian of the Parapsychology Study Center
Nicola Pannelli as Professor Gabriele Braida (season 3)
Roberto Zibetti as Ludovico Muric (season 3)
Mauro Cardinali as Special commissioner Piero Furlan (season 3)
Katia Greco as Inspector Simona Barbieri (season 3)
Eugenio Krilov as Andrea Donda (season 3): Stella's stepbrother
Alessandro Schiavo as Giordano (season 3)
Giulia Sangiorgi as Ksenja Muric (season 3): Vanessa's new best friend
Leonardo Ghini as Niccolò Muric (season 3)
Giusy Frallonardo as Prosecutor Camporesi (season 3)
Emma Abrami as Vanessa Cagliostro (season 3): Leonardo and Anna's daughter
The series production started in 2015, and its working title was La verità di Anna (lit. 'Anna's Truth'). Creator Carlo Lucarelli described the writing process as particularly long, because "we were told it was too thriller, too little melodramatic, too fantasy or too little fantasy". Originally set in Turin, Piedmont, it was moved to Trieste, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, at the suggestion of director Carmine Elia, who had already shot a movie there in 2003. Screenwriters Giampiero Rigosi and Sofia Assirelli visited the city in October 2015 to adapt the script to the setting. Filming took place from February 29 to July 9, 2016 in locations such as the Porto Vecchio, the Melara district, Piazza Unità d'Italia and the Canal Grande, while a mountain scene was filmed for two days in Ravascletto. La porta rossa marked Lino Guanciale's first leading role. To play Cagliostro, the actor rewatched The Sixth Sense and River, and reread Thomas Mann and Fyodor Dostoevsky, likening his character to Ivan Karamazov "who gets crazy when he cannot give himself a logical explanation of the world".
Originally planned to last for one season only, it was renewed thanks to the positive audience reception, with Rai Fiction director Eleonora Andreatta confirming there would be a second season the day after the broadcast of the first season finale. The script reading was held on May 21, 2018, while filming took place from May 28 to October 20 in Trieste and at the Angoris Estate in Cormons.
The third and final season, directed by Gianpaolo Tescari, was confirmed on January 24, 2019 when Trieste and the FVG Film Commission renewed their collaboration to film movies, TV series and documentaries in the city. Lino Guanciale further confirmed it on March 20, breaking his own rule of leaving a series after two seasons. Filming was supposed to start in January 2020, but was postponed because of the COVID-19 lockdowns in Italy. It ultimately took place from August 30 to December 8, 2021. Filming locations included Palazzo Carciotti as the police headquarters, the Porto Vecchio, the Opicina power plant, Palazzo Vivante, the bathing establishment Ausonia in Trieste, and the Rupinpiccolo quarry in Sgonico. Later in July it was confirmed as part of the 2022–23 Rai television schedule: it started airing on January 11.
The series soundtrack is composed by Stefano Lentini and performed by the RAI National Symphony Orchestra conducted by Emanuele Bossi. It was mixed at Air Studios by Geoff Foster and mastered by John Webber. The opening theme It's Not Impossible was composed by Stefano Lentini and Charlie Winston. The soundtrack albums for the first two seasons were made available for digital download, and a CD was included in each season DVD box.
The soundtrack for the third season was performed by the Rome Orchestra and released digitally on January 11, 2023. Amongst its 14 tracks, the album includes a new version of the opening theme It's Not Impossible and a remastering by Lentini of the second movement from Beethoven's Symphony No. 7.
La Repubblica's Antonio Dipollina opined that La porta rossa is "the only [Italian] mainstream TV crime series that resembles genre literature and not a mainstream TV drama". Vanity Fair Italia's Mario Manca wrote that the series, characterized by "intrigues to unravel, pending loves to clarify and a quadrille of twists to cushion", "stage[s] a story of borders, of limits, of universes and of conflicts like we haven't seen in a long time. The adventures of the Ghost-style ghost played by Lino Guanciale, strong and magnetic even though transparent and in the form of an ectoplasm, in fact, possess something magical, a sort of intrinsic strength". TVBlog's Paolo Stura believed that "[its] ability to masterfully blend supernatural and crime without damaging none of the two genres is something that must serve as a lesson to those who want to propose stories with a new flavour".
Movieplayer's Stefano Cocci gave the first season 3.5 stars out of 5, defining it as "an important experiment in the production landscape of Italian fiction". He praised the "modern and demanding" visuals and the narrative that "plays on the alternation of thriller, noir, romance and fantasy, often finding a resource in the alternating editing that underlines the highlight of each episode. Actors and actresses often move at night in a Trieste whipped by wind and rain, while the dark places of the characters' souls twist in the half-light where nothing is what it seems."
DavideMaggio.it's Stefania Stefanelli criticized the second season plot as "forced, complex and excessively distressing". Avvenire's Andrea Fagioli wrote that "the series novelty [...] had already run out a bit with its second season", and that the story "needed to be renewed with less action, more introspection, studies of characters' psychology and new mysteries".
The series premiere of La porta rossa on February 22, 2017 was the most watched program of the night, amassing 3.284 million viewers, or a 13% rating, more than double the network average. The ratings continued to rise episode after episode, and the penultimate one of the first season recorded a 14.4% viewership rating with 3.399 million viewers. The series was one of the most streamed programs on RaiPlay as well. Its audience was mainly composed of females (63%), while 62% of the viewers were over 55.
The second season premiered on February 13, 2019 as one of the most anticipated shows of the year, amassing 3.043 million viewers, or a 12.5% rating. Compared to the first season, it recorded slightly lower ratings, also affected by the simultaneous broadcasting of the football championships on Rai 1, and the finale was watched by 2.807 million viewers (a 12.4% viewership rating).
The third season started airing three years later, with its premiere recording an 8.01% rating for 1.577 million viewers, a good result considering the changed viewers' habits and TV ratings since its premiere. The series finale achieved a 6.9% rating for 1.341 millions viewers.
La porta rossa won an award at the 2018 ShorTS International Film Festival for promoting Trieste in Italy and worldwide. Its soundtrack was a contender for Best Original Score and Best Song for Film at the 2017 Tenerife International Film Music Festival.
The first two seasons were released on DVD in Region 2. They include behind-the-scenes featurettes, a photo gallery, a videoclip, and the original soundtrack CD.
Peggy Beer (born 15 September 1969 in East Berlin) is a retired German heptathlete. Her personal best was 6531 points, achieved at the 1990 European Championships in Split. This ranks her tenth among German heptathletes, behind Sabine Braun, Sabine Paetz, Ramona Neubert, Anke Behmer-Vater, Heike Drechsler, Ines Schulz, Sibylle Thiele, Heike Tischler and Mona Steigauf.
She competed at the Hypo-Meeting twice in her career, coming fifth in 1995 with 6363 points then third with 6382 points in 1998.
Judy Rebick (born August 15, 1945) is a Canadian writer, journalist, political activist, and feminist.
Born in Reno, Nevada, Rebick and her family moved to Toronto when she was 9. She became a socialist activist in the 1970s, joining the Revolutionary Marxist Group. She was a member of its successor, the Revolutionary Workers League, and wrote articles for the RWL's newspaper, Socialist Voice, until she left the organization in the early 1980s.
Rebick first gained prominence in her role as spokesperson for the Ontario Coalition for Abortion Clinics, a pro-choice group, in the 1980s.
In 1983, when a man attacked Henry Morgentaler with garden shears outside of his Toronto abortion clinic, Rebick blocked the attack, and Morgentaler escaped unharmed. Augusto Dantas was charged with assault and with possession of a weapon dangerous to the public good.
She became active in the mid-1980s with an internal group within the Ontario New Democratic Party called the "Campaign for an Activist Party". Though the CAP generated a significant degree of grassroot support, it was opposed by the party establishment, including party leader Bob Rae, and failed. Rebick lost her bid to become party president, losing to Gillian Sandeman, 818 votes to 361. In the 1987 provincial election, she was the NDP's candidate in the suburban Toronto riding of Oriole, where she placed third with 16.7% of the vote, losing to the incumbent, Liberal cabinet minister Elinor Caplan.
Rebick also worked for The Canadian Hearing Society during the 1970s and 1980s as special projects director.
Rebick became a nationally known figure as president of the National Action Committee on the Status of Women from 1990 to 1993. She was the co-host of a prime time debate show called Face Off on CBC Newsworld from 1994–1998 and then a women's discussion show Straight From the Hip, until 2000. She was a regular commentator on CBC TV's Sunday Report and CBC Radio. She was during that time also a columnist with Elm Street, the London Free Press, and on CBC Online.
With Jim Stanford, Svend Robinson and Libby Davies, she helped lead the New Politics Initiative, a movement that worked both inside and outside the New Democratic Party to refocus it as an activist party. The NPI's platform was rejected at the 2001 NDP convention in Winnipeg. She initiated the wind down of the NPI in 2003, claiming that many of its ideals had been embraced by new party leader Jack Layton.
In 2005, she published Ten Thousand Roses: The Making of a Feminist Revolution, which covers feminists movements in Canada from the 1960s through the 1990s. She also published Transforming Power: From the Personal to the Political (2009). From 2002 to 2011 she served three consecutive terms as the Canadian Auto Workers–Sam Gindin Chair in Social Justice and Democracy at Ryerson University (now Toronto Metropolitan University) in Toronto, Ontario.
Rebick, who is Jewish, took part in protests against the State of Israel's military actions in the 2009 Gaza conflict.
After the conclusion of the G20 summit in Toronto in June 2010, Rebick suggested that police did not adequately address the problem of Black Bloc protestors who caused property damage, stating at the time, "What they could have done is arrest the Black Bloc at the beginning before they had a chance to be part of the bigger crowd, and that's what they didn't do."
Rebick began visiting Occupy camps starting with Zuccotti Park in New York on October 16, 2011, after the movement had exploded in growth overnight and camps had been established in cities throughout the US and Canada. She began promoting the Occupy movement, and in March 2012 her book Occupy This was released by Penguin Canada.
Her memoir, Heroes in My Head, was released in 2018. The book formed part of the basis for Mike Hoolboom's documentary film Judy Versus Capitalism, which was released in 2020.
In March 2022, she was amongst 151 international feminists signing Feminist Resistance Against War: A Manifesto, in solidarity with the Russian Feminist Anti-War Resistance.
In 2026, Rebick endorsed Avi Lewis in that year's federal NDP leadership race.
transformingpower.ca Official website for "Transforming Power: From the Personal to the Political"
Ten Thousand Roses Penguin Canada page featuring Rebick's latest book.
video recorded Oct. 21, 2008 After the Election: Neoliberal Crisis or Neo-Conservative Advance? Strategies for the Left
Giovanni Moscardini (Italian pronunciation: [dʒoˈvanni moskarˈdiːni]; 1897–1985), also known as Johnny Moscardini, was an Italian Scottish footballer who played as a forward for Lucchese, Pisa, Genoa He scored 7 goals in his 9 games for the Italy national team. Born in Falkirk, he was one of the earliest of the Oriundi. While the majority of Oriundi who played for Italy came from South America, Moscardini was the only one born in Scotland. Among tributes in his honour, the football stadium in Barga, Tuscany, is named after him.
Giovanni Moscardini was born to parents Giocondo and Maria at 138 Graham's Road, Falkirk in 1897. Moscardini's family hailed from Barga. In Scotland his family established several fish-and-chip shops and ice-cream parlours. Giovanni appears on the 1901 UK census as does a brother, Umberto. In the 1911 UK census (by which time he'd be around 13 years old), Giovanni no longer appears.
Italy joined World War I on 23 May 1915. Moscardini is reported enlisted in the Italian Army as a machine gunner. In the Battle of Caporetto on the Austrian front late in 1917, he was wounded in the left elbow by shrapnel. Sent to Sicily to recover, while there he helped organise a local football team.
Moscardini subsequently returned to his family home of Barga. Playing football for local team AS Barga, he was spotted by a scout from Lucchese. Playing for them from 1919, Lucca (as the club were then named) in 1920–21 re-joined the Tuscany section of Prima Categoria, a predecessor Italian Football Championship to the 1929 formed Serie A. While at Lucca, in November 1921 he debuted for the Italian National Team. While with Lucca, he travelled as a guest player with Genoa CFC on their 1923 four game tour to Buenos Aires and Montevideo. He played in the last three of they games; firstly against a Combined Southern team, then in games against each of Uruguay and Argentina. He scored versus Uruguay.
After five years playing for Lucchese he switched to Pisa playing in 1924-25 Prima Divisione (from which Prima Categoria had been re-branded). An RSSSF article on Scotsmen playing in Italy credits him scoring 18 goals that season for Pisa. The RSSSF article for the Italian Football Championship that season credits him with scoring two goals.
Between 1921 and 1925 Moscardini he scored 7 goals in his 9 Italy games. He scored debuting for Italy in the 1–1 draw versus Switzerland on 6 November 1921. On 15 January 1922 he scored two drawing 3–3 versus Austria. On 21 May 1922 he scored winning 4–2 versus Belgium. His fifth international goal was on 27 May 1923, losing a 5–1 at Czechoslovakia. He scored two in his last Italy game, versus France on 22 March 1925 winning 7–0. Moscardini won his first eight caps while playing for Lucchese and his last while at Pisa. He was the first Pisa player ever capped by Italy.
Moscardini married his wife, Tecla Castelvecchi, in 1924 while he still played in Italy. With professional in Italian football still in its pre-Serie A infancy, he retired from football there in 1925 to focus on supporting his family. He would have been about 28 years old. He returned to Scotland that year to manage his uncle's Royal Cafe on the harbour front in Campbeltown. He played amateur football for Campbelltown Pupils AFC.
He then moved in 1928 to Monkton, South Ayrshire, to start his own business, the Lake Café at Main Street in nearby Prestwick. He fathered a daughter named Jenny born in 1929. He retired in the 1960s and died in Monkton in 1985, the year after Tecla's death. He, Tecla and Jenny are buried at Monkton and Prestwick Old Cemetery.
The Stadio Communale Johnny Moscardini in Barga bears his name. In 2016 Barga Mayor, Umberto Sereni, unveiled a photographic tribute to Moscardini outside the stadium.
Johnny Moscardini inspired a musical composition titled "Il Saluto di Giovanni Moscardini" (Johnny Moscardini's Salute). The composition is a reel for pipes and drums, brass band, strings, and percussion. It was composed by Blair Douglas. In 2016, renewed interest in Moscardini led to the creation of the Moscardini Cup, competed for by teams of writers from Scotland and Italy. The Italian team won the game 5–0 played at the Stadio Johnny Moscardini in 2016. Moscardini's years in Campbeltown are the subject of a poem by Thomas Clark, titled O Johnny Moscardini!.
Yaryshevo (Russian: Ярышево) is a rural locality (a selo) in Gavrilovo-Posadsky District, Ivanovo Oblast, Russia. Population: 103 (2010 census);
This rural locality is located 3 km from Gavrilov Posad (the district's administrative centre), 68 km from Ivanovo (capital of Ivanovo Oblast) and 179 km from Moscow. Voymiga is the nearest rural locality.
Henry Joseph O'Leary (March 13, 1879 – March 5, 1938) was a Canadian cleric, the fifth Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Charlottetown, and later the second Archbishop of the Archdiocese of Edmonton.[1]
Born in Richibucto, New Brunswick to Henry O'Leary and Mary O'Leary, he received his higher education from St. Joseph's College in Memramcook then studied Theology at the Grand Seminary in Montreal. On September 21, 1901, O'Leary was ordained a priest in Richibucto. The same year he went to Rome, where he later earned doctorates in Theology, Philosophy, and Canon Law.
In 1907 O'Leary was appointed priest for the Sacred Heart Parish in Bathurst, New Brunswick. The following year, he was appointed Vicar General for the Diocese of Chatham. In 1913 O'Leary became Bishop for the Diocese of Charlottetown on Prince Edward Island but as St. Dunstan's Basilica in Charlottetown had recently burned down, O'Leary was consecrated at the Sacred Heart Church in Bathurst.
One of his first acts was to have a new cathedral built on the site of the ruined Basilica. It was completed during O'Leary's tenure and opened in 1919.
In World War I many Diocesan parishioners joined the armed services and several priests became chaplains. During this time, the new Saint Vincent Orphanage was completed to replace the old one in Charlottetown.
O'Leary founded a convent in 1916 when the Sisters of St. Martha of Prince Edward Island was established.
In 1919, during his tenure, St. Dunstan's College, which had been started years ago by Bishop Bernard McDonald on the closure of St. Andrew's College, became a university with the power to grant its own degrees. The first fundraising for the university raised over $40,000.
The Charlottetown Hospital, which had been backed by Bishop Peter McIntyre in the 19th century continued to grow as a new maternity department opened in 1918 and a school of nursing was established in 1920. The hospital was under the supervision of the Grey Nuns of Quebec, whose presence had been felt in the Diocese of Charlottetown for many years.
After seven years as Bishop of Charlottetown, O'Leary was appointed Archbishop of the Archdiocese of Edmonton, in the Western Canadian region. Archbishop Henry Joseph O'Leary died in 1938. His remains were interred in St. Joachim's Cemetery in Edmonton.
The Archbishop O'Leary Catholic High School in Edmonton, founded in the 1960s, was named after him.
The Era of Bishop Henry O'Leary : Diocese of Charlottetown
The 1971 CONCACAF Champions' Cup was the 7th edition of the annual international club football competition held in the CONCACAF region (North America, Central America and the Caribbean), the CONCACAF Champions' Cup. It determined that year's club champion of association football in the CONCACAF region. It was played from August 22, 1971, till April 19, 1972, under the home/away match system.
The teams were split into 3 zones (North American, Central American and Caribbean), each one qualifying two teams to the final tournament, played for the first time in a group system. After the end of the group, a playoff match had to be played because two teams ended with the same points in the lead of the group. This tournament included the Rochester Lancers, the only team from the original North American Soccer League to take part.
Cruz Azul from Mexico won the final, and became for the third time in its history became CONCACAF champion.
Cruz Azul advanced to the CONCACAF Final Tournament.
Rochester Lancers advanced to the CONCACAF Final Tournament.
Comunicaciones advanced to the First Round.
Comunicaciones advance to the second round
Alajuelense advanced to the Second Round.
Comunicaciones advance to the Final Tournament
Alajuelense advanced to the Final Tournament
Transvaal advanced to the Final Tournament
After the end of the group stage a playoff match had to be played due to Cruz Azul and Alajuelense ended with the same points in the lead of the group.
The final tournament was played in Guatemala City.
Verduya's hap (Copadichromis trimaculatus) is a species of haplochromine cichlid which is endemic to Lake Malawi. It has a lake-wide range and is thus found in Malawi, Mozambique, and Tanzania. This species occurs in open water, sometimes forming large shoals.
Economic reform in Iraq describes decisions by the Coalition Provisional Authority to dramatically change the economy of Iraq in the aftermath of the 2003 U.S.-led invasion.
Prior to US occupation, Iraq had a centrally planned economy. Among other things, it prohibited foreign ownership of Iraqi businesses, ran most large industries as state-owned enterprises, and imposed large tariffs to keep out foreign goods. After the 2003 Invasion of Iraq, the Coalition Provisional Authority quickly began issuing many binding orders privatizing Iraq's economy and opening it up to foreign investment.
Economic reform was implemented alongside reform of government institutions, the Iraqi legal system, and significant international investment to repair or replace damaged infrastructure of Iraq.
While reform efforts have produced some successes, problems have arisen with the implementation of internationally funded Iraq reconstruction efforts. These include inadequate security, pervasive corruption, insufficient funding and poor coordination among international agencies and local communities.
Paul Bremer, chief executive the Coalition Provisional Authority of Iraq, planned to restructure Iraq's state owned economy with free market thinking.
Bremer dropped the corporate tax rate from around 45% to a flat tax rate of 15% and allowed foreign corporations to repatriate all profits earned in Iraq. Opposition from senior Iraqi officials, together with the poor security situation, meant that Bremer's privatization plan was not implemented during his tenure, though his orders remain in place. In addition to approximately 200 other state owned businesses, privatization of the oil industry was scheduled to begin sometime in late 2005, though it is opposed by the Federation of Oil Unions in Iraq.
Order 39 laid out the framework for full privatization in Iraq, except for "primary extraction and initial processing" of oil, and permitted 100% foreign ownership of Iraqi assets.
The Iraq oil law is a proposed piece of legislation submitted to the Iraqi Council of Representatives in May 2007.
The Iraqi government has yet to reach an agreement on the law. In June 2008, the Iraqi Oil Ministry announced plans to go ahead with small one or two year no-bid contracts to ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and BP — once partners in the Iraq Petroleum Company — along with Chevron and smaller firms to service Iraq's largest fields. These plans were canceled in September because negotiations had stalled for so long that the work could not be completed within the time frame, according to Iraqi oil minister Hussain al-Shahristani. Several United States senators had also criticized the deal, arguing it was hindering efforts to pass the hydrocarbon law.
Bremer's transitional government featured figures close to the George W. Bush administration, such as grain-trading industry lobbyist Dan Amstutz, who was put in charge of agricultural policy in Iraq.
CPA Order 39, entitled "Foreign Investment", provided that "A foreign investor shall be entitled to make foreign investments in Iraq on terms no less favorable than those applicable to an Iraqi investor," and that "[t]he amount of foreign participation in newly formed or existing business entities in Iraq shall not be limited...." Additionally, the foreign investor "shall be authorized to... transfer abroad without delay all funds associated with its foreign investment, including shares or profits and dividends...."
By this order, critics assert that the CPA drastically altered Iraq's economy, allowing virtually unlimited and unrestricted foreign investment and placing no limitations on the expatriation of profit. However, these policies accord with current international standards on foreign direct investment which most of the developed world adheres to.
The order concluded, "Where an international agreement to which Iraq is a party provides for more favorable terms with respect to foreign investors undertaking investment activities in Iraq, the more favorable terms under the international agreement shall apply."
According to critics such as Naomi Klein, this order was designed to create as favorable an environment for foreign investors as possible, thereby allowing American and multinational corporations to dominate Iraq's economy.
Significant criticism has suggested these policies are fundamentally anti-democratic, that such rules can only be legitimate if passed by an elected Iraqi government free of foreign occupation.
Others argue that the rules merely bring Iraq's economic law into conformity with modern norms of international trade, and that the previous government and its laws were not democratically legitimate since Saddam Hussein's government was not elected.
CPA Order 17 granted all foreign contractors operating in Iraq immunity from "Iraqi legal process," effectively granting immunity from any kind of suit, civil or criminal, for actions the contractors engaged in within Iraq.
CPA Order 12, amended by Order 54, suspended all tariffs, thus removing the advantage that domestic Iraqi producers had over foreign producers. However, a 5% "reconstruction levy" on all imported goods was later reimposed to help finance Iraqi-initiated reconstruction projects.
CPA Order 49 provided a tax cut for corporations operating within Iraq. It reduced the rate from a maximum of 40% to a maximum of 15% on income. Corporations working with the CPA were exempted from owing any tax.
One of the key economic challenges was Iraq's immense foreign debt, estimated at $130 billion. Although some of this debt was derived from normal export contracts that Iraq had failed to pay for, almost all of it was a result of military and financial support during Iraq's war with Iran.
The Jubilee Iraq campaign argued that much of these debts were odious (illegitimate). However, as the concept of odious debt is not accepted, trying to deal with the debt on those terms would have embroiled Iraq in legal disputes for years. Iraq decided to deal with its debt more pragmatically and approached the Paris Club of official creditors. Iraq restructured its debt with official and commercial creditors between 2006 and 2008.
The utilisation of what has been called by Joseph Stiglitz arguably the most radical market shock therapy tried anywhere helped to inflame sectarian divisions and greatly impeded Iraq's process of reconstruction and recovery. The CPA's policies led to the firing of up to 10% of the Iraqi labour force due to De-Ba'athification. Unemployment subsequently went up from 16.8% to 28.1% by the end of 2003. Independent estimates however said that unemployment by the end of 2005 could have been as high as 40%. The rapid rise in unemployment caused by the CPA's economic reforms helped push Iraqis toward supporting insurgency as alternative forms of employment. The CPA's reforms left future governments in Iraq beholden to financial pressures, which left Iraq more amenable to exploitative influence from the International Monetary Fund.
Since the peak of 1980, the nominal GDP of Iraq has steadily shrunk to merely $12.3 billion in 2000 primarily due to sanctions and the consequences of the bombing of Iraq during the Gulf War. However removal of sanctions, after the overthrow of Saddam, had immediate effect. The nominal GDP had reached $55.4 billion by 2007 due to increase in oil output as well as international prices. In 2006, the real GDP growth was estimated at almost 17 percent.
In a December 2006 Newsweek International article, a study by Global Insight in London was reported to show that Civil war or not, Iraq has an economy, and—mother of all surprises—it's doing remarkably well. Real estate is booming. Construction, retail and wholesale trade sectors are healthy, too, according to [the report].The U.S. Chamber of Commerce reports 34,000 registered companies in Iraq, up from 8,000 three years ago. Sales of secondhand cars, televisions and mobile phones have all risen sharply. Estimates vary, but one from Global Insight puts GDP growth at 17 percent last year and projects 13 percent for 2006. The World Bank has it lower: at 4 percent this year. But, given all the attention paid to deteriorating security, the startling fact is that Iraq is growing at all.
However, other metrics demonstrated that Iraq's economy continued to struggle. While rising oil prices in 2005 and 2006 helped cause an uptick in Iraq's GDP, this did not translate to any meaningful increase in living standards as the oil sector accounted for only 1% of the labour force. Furthermore, as a result of the CPA's liberalisation the energy sector did not recover. Electricity production in 2006 was 15% lower than pre-invasion levels, and the failure to reconstruct Iraqi energy led to a rise in malnutrition, crude mortality rates, and a diminished access to clean water. In addition, the imposition of free trade resulted in the devastation of Iraq's domestic manufacturing industries. The CPA suspended all tariffs, import taxes, custom duties, and licensing fees resulting in a deluge of one-way trade where more competitive commodities flooded the market which destroyed what remained of Iraq's manufacturing sector. The resulting rise in impoverished capitalists and business owners and members of the labour force benefitted the Iraqi insurgency as they gained access to new recruits and sources of funding.
The effects of liberalisation of security also had harmful effects to Iraq. Order 27 created a "mercenary market" in Iraq. Jobs that would otherwise have been carried out by the military or the police were instead done by private contractors of either Iraqi or non-Iraqi origin who had the same privileges as military and police officers without any amount of accountability. As a result, Iraq ended up losing its "monopoly on violence" to private contractors with approximately 100,000 mercenaries being employed in Iraq following the issuing of Order 27, many of whom engaged in acts of torture, abuse, and killings.
Between 100,000 barrels per day (16,000 m3/d) and 300,000 barrels per day (48,000 m3/d) of Iraq's declared oil production over the past four years could have been siphoned off through corruption or smuggling, according to a US Study from May 12, 2007.
Because of the economic potential of Iraq, a niche market for Iraqi Dinar currency has emerged. Speculators are making investments in the Iraqi Dinar in hopes of receiving a return once Iraq stabilizes as a country. Jim Cramer's October 20, 2009 endorsement of the Iraqi Dinar on CNBC has further piqued interest in the investment.
Critics of the CPA argue that these policies were not only rather blatant attempts to shape Iraq's economy in the interests of American (and other) investors and against the interests of Iraqis themselves, but also that they were illegal under international law (specifically the Hague Resolutions and the Geneva Conventions) because an occupying power is prohibited from rewriting the laws of the occupied country.
The CPA argued that imposing Order 39 was permitted under the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1483, because it required the CPA to "promote the welfare of the Iraqi people through the effective administration of the territory," and to create "conditions in which the Iraqi people can freely determine their own political future." Proponents of this position state Resolution 1483 necessarily requires radical economic restructuring, so it allowed an exception to international law regarding occupation. However, others point out that Resolution 1483 "calls upon all concerned to comply with international law including in particular the Geneva Conventions of 1949", which would require an occupying force to respect the laws in force in the country unless absolutely prevented.
The Shark Alliance was a global not-for-profit coalition founded in 2006 by Pew Charitable Trusts of non-governmental organizations dedicated to restoring and conserving shark populations by improving shark conservation policies. As of May 2010 the Shark Alliance consisted of 85 NGOs from over 35 countries.
The Shark Alliance was initiated and coordinated by the Pew Environment Group, the conservation arm of Pew Charitable Trusts, a non-government organization working to end overfishing in the world's oceans.
The mission of the Shark Alliance is to secure the following:
Shark fishing limits in line with scientific advice and the precautionary approach, including stronger policies to prevent shark finning
Safeguards and conservation guidance for sharks through the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES)
A United Nations Resolution that includes ambitious timelines for implementation of the International Plan of Action for Sharks and lays out consequences for inaction
The Shark Alliance concluded operations after the European Union established regulations to reduce shark finning and protect shark populations.
To raise public awareness about the dramatic decline of shark species and Europe's role in the process, the Shark Alliance proclaimed 8–14 October 2007 to be the first European Shark Week. Using the slogan "Every Fin Counts!", members of the public were asked to take part in events and sign a petition asking the fisheries commission of the EU for better regulation to protect sharks. During European Shark Week over 100 events were organised around Europe by Shark Alliance members. At the end of the campaign, over 20,000 signatures were presented to the fisheries commission.
In 2010, the Shark Alliance's Shark Week expanded beyond Europe to include North and South America to raise public awareness around the globe.
The 2006 United States immigration reform protests were a series of demonstrations held across the United States between March and May 2006 in response to proposed changes to U.S. immigration policy. Millions of people participated in the protests, which scholars have identified as a significant event in the development of Latino political participation and immigrant-rights activism in the United States. The demonstrations were organized in response to proposed legislation known as H.R. 4437, which would have increased penalties related to illegal immigration and classified illegal immigrants and individuals who knowingly assisted them in entering or remaining in the United States unlawfully as felons. As part of the broader immigration debate, many participants also advocated comprehensive immigration reform, including the creation of a pathway to citizenship for undocumented immigrants.
The demonstrations began in Chicago and spread to major cities across the United States over an eight-week period. The first major protest was held in Chicago on March 10, 2006, and was estimated to have attracted about 100,000 participants. The largest single demonstration took place in downtown Los Angeles on March 25, 2006, where officials estimated that more than 500,000 people participated in the march known as "La Gran Marcha" ("The Great March"). Organizers later estimated attendance at between 1.25 and 1.5 million based on photographic analysis. The largest coordinated day of demonstrations occurred on April 10, 2006, when protests were held in 102 cities nationwide, including an estimated 350,000–500,000 participants in Dallas. Most of the demonstrations were peaceful. Additional nationwide protests took place on May Day.
The marches reached a climax on May 1, 2006, and were nicknamed "A Day Without Immigrants." Naming the protests in such way encouraged immigrants and others to quit their daily labor-intensive jobs for a day to draw attention to their significant contributions to U.S. daily life. Latino immigrants and others across the country were urged to boycott work, school and other economic activities. Those outside the Latino community were shocked to see the growing workforce of janitors, nannies, restaurant workers and many other service workers leave their jobs to join the protests. The mobilization of working-class illegal individuals was intended to challenge the belief that the United States would be able to prosper without illegal immigrants.
The protests took place on May 1, a date meant to honor workers throughout the country. The May 1st marches reflected the immigrant protesters' identities as workers and significant contributors to U.S. society. Most immigrants of Latin American descent come to the United States seeking economic prosperity for themselves and their families, they frequently accept low wage jobs to survive in the United States. Therefore, missing work for a day burdened their families. Yet, thousands of immigrants risked their jobs and joined the marches to demand political recognition.
The history of unauthorized immigration provides context for the 2006 immigration reform protests and the broader debate over U.S. immigration policy. Prior to 1960, Mexican nationals could enter the United States through programs such as the Bracero Program or by crossing the border without inspection. Permanent immigration from Mexico became subject to numerical visa limits after changes to U.S. immigration law during the 1960s.
An unauthorized immigrant is generally defined as a person who resides in the United States without legal authorization. This may include individuals who entered the country without inspection as well as those who entered lawfully on temporary visas but remained after their authorized period of stay had expired. Unauthorized entry into the United States is generally classified as a misdemeanor under federal law.
Before 1965, the United States did not impose numerical immigration limits on countries in the Western Hemisphere. The Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965 repealed the national-origins quota system established by the Immigration Act of 1924, expanding immigration opportunities for many countries while also introducing numerical limits for immigration from the Western Hemisphere. The Act also retained broad provisions for family reunification, allowing U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents to sponsor certain relatives for immigration. Scholars have identified these policy changes as contributing to changes in migration patterns from Latin America, particularly Mexico, and to the growth of the Latino population in the United States.
In response to increasing concern about unauthorized immigration during the 1980s, Congress passed the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA). The Act prohibited employers from knowingly hiring unauthorized workers and established legalization programs for certain undocumented immigrants who met residency or agricultural employment requirements. Approximately 2.7 million people obtained legal status under IRCA.
Although IRCA legalized millions of undocumented immigrants, unauthorized immigration continued in subsequent decades. In response, the federal government increased funding for border enforcement and the United States Border Patrol. Despite these measures, the unauthorized immigrant population continued to grow, reaching an estimated eleven million people by the mid-2000s, a large proportion of whom were of Mexican origin. According to scholars, these demographic changes contributed to increased political attention to unauthorized immigration and to debates over immigration policy, particularly regarding migration from Latin America.
Spanish-language media outlets, including Univision, Telemundo, Azteca América, and La Opinión, devoted extensive coverage to the protests and publicized upcoming demonstrations. Many outlets promoted the events using the term "Mega Marcha" to emphasize their scale. In Los Angeles, KMEX-TV, a Univision-owned station, used the slogan "Pisando Firme" ("Stepping Strong") in its coverage of the demonstrations and encouraged participants to march peacefully and with dignity.
Spanish-language radio also played a prominent role in publicizing the protests. Eddie "Piolín" Sotelo, host of the nationally syndicated program Piolín por la Mañana, encouraged listeners to attend demonstrations and coordinated with other Spanish-language radio hosts in Southern California. The program was broadcast in dozens of U.S. media markets, including several cities that hosted large demonstrations. Sotelo also appeared at several rallies during the protest movement.
Religious organizations and leaders also expressed support for immigration reform. Cardinal Roger Mahony of the Archdiocese of Los Angeles encouraged Catholics to support the demonstrations and called for immigration legislation that differed from H.R. 4437. He also stated that Catholic clergy should not comply with any law requiring them to inquire about an individual's immigration status before providing religious services.
Scholars have attributed the scale of the demonstrations to cooperation between Spanish-language media, immigrant advocacy organizations, labor groups, religious institutions, and community leaders, which collectively coordinated outreach and encouraged participation in protests across the United States.
The initial protests caused much controversy after some protesters waved Mexican and Central American flags instead of American flags. Various talk-radio hosts and columnists played up the contentious nature of displaying non-U.S. flags during the protests. One particular incident referred to involved a protest at Montebello High School in California, where a Mexican flag was raised on a flagpole over a United States flag flying in the distressed (or upside-down) position.
As part of the backlash over the protests and the controversy over the flag symbolism issue, a group calling themselves "Border Guardians" burned a Mexican flag in front of the Mexican Consulate in Tucson, Arizona, on April 9, 2006. The following day the group proceeded to burn two Mexican flags during protest in Tucson which was estimated to have had 15,000 participants. After the police seized a student who had thrown a water bottle at the "Border Guardians", they followed the police officers calling for them to let the student go. As the situation escalated violence broke out and 6 were arrested with dozens being pepper-sprayed. The next day the police arrested the leader of the Border Guardians, Roy Warden, for charges including assault and starting a fire in a public park.
Because of the controversy, organizers of the protests encouraged protesters to leave their Mexican flags at home, with Cardinal Roger Mahony telling Los Angeles protesters to not fly any flag other than the United States flag because, "...they do not help us get the legislation we need." As a result of this controversy later protests featured fewer Mexican flags and more protesters carrying American flags.
In addition, California's Oceanside Unified School District banned flags and signs from its campuses after "Mexican flag-wavers clashed with U.S. flag-wavers."
The Washington Post reported that, in the Washington, D.C., suburb of Herndon, a day labor center at which suspected illegal individuals gathered was closed and its mayor and two aldermen lost reelection, in part due to immigration concerns.
Membership in the Minuteman Project increased due in part to backlash from the protests. On May 3, responding to the May 1 boycotts, the Minutemen embarked on a caravan across the United States in an effort to bring attention to a need for border enforcement. The caravan was expected to reach Washington, D.C., on May 12.
Regarding the Tucson-based anti-immigration movement: In 2006, the Southern Poverty Law Center wrote: "Roy Warden, 59, emerged this spring as one of the country's most controversial, volatile, and, many believe, dangerous characters of the anti-immigration movement."
Although HR-4437 failed to pass through the Senate, it left a trail of consequences that affected the immigrant community. One of those consequences was intensive Immigration Customs Enforcement (ICE) raids during the final years of the Bush administration which continued throughout the Obama presidency. In the next couple of years, more than 300,000 illegal immigrants were deported to their home countries, that is 100,000 more than the number of deported immigrants in 2005, a year before the protests. The increase in deportations caused fear of retaliation within the illegal immigrant community and resulted in rapid demobilization.
Although HR-4437 did not become a law at the federal level, it did not prevent individual states from passing similar laws. In 2006, Pennsylvania passed the Illegal Immigration Relief Act, which fined landlords who rented housing to illegal immigrants and also fined business owners who hired them. The State of Arizona passed S.B. 1070, which led to racial profiling and required police officers to request legal documentation from anyone they suspected was residing in the country unlawfully. Both laws, along with similar others, were deemed unconstitutional in part because the U.S. Constitution assigns control over immigration to the federal government, not individual states.
The effects of the protests were not limited to governmental and policy changes, either. Public opinion in the Latino community showed clear development based on both temporal and spacial exposure to the protests. The Latino National Survey (LNS) took place during the course of the protests, with approximately 37% of respondents being surveyed before the protests began. Using the data from respondents before and after the advent of the protests, a study from The American Journal of Political Science compared immigration sentiments from before and after exposure to the 2006 protests. The table divided sentiments into three categories: amnesty, supporting immediate legalization; citizenship after time as a guest worker; or allowing guest workers temporary residence. Support for immediate legalization showed a 10% increase postprotest, while support for the temporary residence of guest workers dropped by 4%.
The LNS also showed that 75% of Latino citizens believed the passing of the bill through the House and resulting discourse would prompt more Latinos to vote. The portion of Latinos who said they thought neither political party had acceptable immigration policy also increased from the 9% reported in 2004 to 20% in the 2006 report. The effects of the immigration reform protests were felt across the United States, both in policy and public opinion.
Since illegal immigrant communities were unable to vote, lobby, or influence politicians in more traditional ways, Latino leaders mobilized immigrants through non-voting activities, such as protests. Many Latinos indicated that the marches were the beginning of a new social and political movement that sought to gain civic empowerment. A report released by the Pew Hispanic Center indicated that Latinos would most likely vote in subsequent elections and The National Immigration Forum found that Latino voters were more enthusiastic to vote in 2006 due to the immigration debate, and the need to prevent legislation like HR-4437 from being approved by Congress. "Today we march, tomorrow we vote," was one of the most popular slogans during the 2006 immigrant protests. Such slogan indicated the value and need for Latino/a political contribution and recognition.
March 10: 100,000 marched from Union Park to Federal Plaza in Chicago but organizers say that about 250,000- 500,000 actually marched.
March 24: 20,000 marched to Senator Jon Kyl's office in Phoenix. Tens of thousands of workers participate in a work stoppage in Georgia.
March 25: more than 500,000 (casual police estimate) march in downtown Los Angeles, but organizers claim more than 1.25 million based on photographic analysis
March 26: 7,000 people rallied at the Statehouse in Columbus, Ohio.
March 27: Hundreds of high school students walk out of class in protest in Northern Virginia .
March 29: 8,000–9,000 marched from The Coliseum to Legislative Plaza in Nashville.
March 30: Robert Pambello, the principal of Reagan High School in Houston, placed a Mexican flag below the American and Texan flags and was ordered to remove it. He later resigned from his position for apparently unrelated reasons. In South West Houston, high school students from Robert E. Lee High, Bellaire High, Sam Houston High School (joining from Houston's Northside) and other middle schoolers joined in a march that was taken to city hall.
March 31: 3,000 high school and middle school students in Las Vegas walk out of class to protest. Some college and community college students join them on their protest.
April 1: 10,000 marched across the Brooklyn Bridge to Foley Square in New York City.
April 6: Hundreds of Aurora, Illinois students left school to march downtown to protest.
April 8: Several hundred people rally at Chicano Park in San Diego.
April 9: Demonstrations in several cities across the United States, including:
50,000 marched in San Diego from Balboa Park, through downtown to the County Administration Building.
6,000 protested in Des Moines, Iowa at Nollen Plaza in support of comprehensive immigration reform., April 9
April 10: Demonstrations were staged in many cities and towns across the United States;
Atlanta, Georgia, at least 50,000 people rallied both for and against amnesty.
Boston, Massachusetts, approximately 2,000 demonstrators march from Boston Common to Copley Square.
Charleston, South Carolina, at least 4,000 people gathered and protested the inability of lawmakers to agree on legislation that would lead to citizenship.
Fort Myers, Florida, an estimated 75,000 people took part in "The Great March" which affected traffic in nearby areas of the march. The stream of protesters was at least a mile long at times.
Las Vegas, a well-organized march of approximately 3,000 people was held. Protesters marched two miles from Jaycee Park to the Federal Courthouse during the first day of the Clark Country Spring Break, waving Mexican and American flags alike. They protested in favor of amnesty.
New York City, between 70,000 and 125,000 people demonstrated in front of City Hall. Senators Hillary Clinton and Chuck Schumer spoke at the rally. Neither called for amnesty, though many of the crowd's signs and chants did.
Oakland, California, an estimated 10,000 people took part in the demonstration.
Salt Lake City, Utah, a unity rally was held at the City-County Building; there were an estimated 15,000 protesters.
San Jose, California, an estimated 25,000 demonstrators marched several miles from King and Story to city hall. Highway access to US 101 and I-680 was closed, causing significant traffic backups.
Seattle, between 15,000 and 25,000 marched to a rally at the federal building where speakers in support of the demonstrators, such as Mayor Greg Nickels and County Executive Ron Sims spoke. Just five thousand were expected.
April 11: Several protests occurred in Nevada.
In Las Vegas, a rally with an estimated minimum of 300+ was held at the Cashman Center; several important opposition figures showed up, such as Jim Gilchrist, the Nevada Secretary of State, local radio host Mark Edwards, and numerous state Minuteman Project branches to protest against amnesty.
In Carson City, Nevada, an estimated 200 students walked out of class, rallying in front of the Governor's Mansion.
In Reno, Nevada, between 2,000 and 4,000 protesters marched through the downtown area, from the University of Nevada, Reno campus to the Bruce R. Thompson Federal Building, and continued to a designated spot near the Meadowood Mall. Traffic was held and diverted along South Virginia Street during the march.
April 13: Students from several Woodburn, Oregon (a town with a large Hispanic community) schools marched out of class.
April 19: Students from various Denver high schools and middle schools walked out of class and marched to the capitol.
April 27: Approximately 200 volunteers and supporters built a 6 foot high, quarter mile section of barbed wire fencing along the Mexico and United States border to send a clear message to Americans and leaders in Washington regarding the lack of security at our borders.
April 28: "Nuestro Himno", a Spanish language rendition of the "Star Spangled Banner", is played simultaneously on about 500 Spanish language radio stations across the country. The controversy died in a few days, after it was revealed that Cuban immigrant Jon Secada had sung the anthem in Spanish at Bush inauguration ceremony, and that a Spanish version of the anthem had been commissioned by the Bureau of Education of the United States in 1919.
May 1: The "Great American Boycott" takes place across the United States and at a few locations abroad.
An estimated 400,000 marched in Chicago, according to police, though organizers pegged the total at closer to 700,000; "Latinos were joined by immigrants of Polish, Irish, Asian and African descent."
An estimated 400,000 marched in Los Angeles, according to police.
The boycott was said to have had "little economic impact" in Arizona.
Modesto, California saw close to 10,000 people marching in the streets, possibly the largest assembly of people in the city's history. Major city streets were shut down as a direct result.
Over 15,000 protesters were reported in Santa Barbara, California.
Some supporters have hailed this as "the most important boycott since the days of the civil rights movement".
Over 100,000 marched in the Bay Area of California.
At least 10,000 marched in Orange County.
A minor disturbance in Vista, California was disbursed by 200 police officers.
Local news estimates that 3,000+ people marched from Jaycee Park in Las Vegas, Nevada; some local businesses suffered but the majority of businesses felt no financial impact.
According to LA Observed, an altercation occurred between protestors and police at MacArthur Park in Los Angeles.
Thousands of immigrants and their supporters did not go to work or school in Iowa United for the Dignity and Safety of Immigrants (UDSI) (organizing group estimates).
May 2: The Minuteman Project says that 400 new members joined in April in response to the protests.
May 3: In response to the pro-immigration reform boycott, the Minutemen started a two-vehicle caravan across the United States which reached Washington, D.C., on May 12.
May 25: The United States Senate passes S. 2611 which includes a path to citizenship for up to 8.5 million illegal individuals. The bill eventually failed and was never enacted.
H.R. 4437 (The Border Protection, Anti terrorism, and Illegal Immigration Control Act of 2005) was passed by the United States House of Representatives on December 16, 2005, by a vote of 239 to 182. It is also known as the "Sensenbrenner Bill", for its sponsor in the House of Representatives, Jim Sensenbrenner. H.R. 4437 was seen by many as the catalyst for the 2006 U.S. immigration reform protests.
The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 previously gave "amnesty" to 2.7 million illegal immigrants. Proponents of the measure, including then-President Reagan, said the measure, paired with stricter employer rules and a better path for legal entry, would reduce illegal immigration.
The companion bill passed by the United States Senate was S. 2611, which never passed conference committee. The House Republican leadership stated that it rejected S. 2611 wholly and would only pass legislation that addressed border security. The end of the 109th Congress marked the death of this bill.
The USA Supreme Court on June 16, 2008, ruled in Dada v. Mukasey, per ponente Justice Kennedy ruled (5–4) "that someone who is here illegally may withdraw his voluntarily agreement to depart and continue to try to get approval to remain in the United States." The Court held that complying with a deportation order did not strip an immigrant of the right to appeal that deportation order. The lawsuit is about 2 seemingly contradictory provisions of immigration law. One prevents deportation by voluntary departure from the country. The other section allows immigrants who are here illegally but whose circumstances have changed to build their case to immigration officials, and who must remain in the US. In the case, Samson Dada, a Nigerian citizen, overstayed beyond the expiration of his tourist visa in 1998. Immigration authorities ordered him to leave the country as he agreed to leave voluntarily, but to allow his legal re-entry, unlike if he had been deported.
The following organizations mobilized from hundreds (FAIR) to millions of people (Great American Boycott) around immigration reform in the United States during 2006.
May 1, 2006 'A Day Without Immigrant' National Mobilization Endorsers' – national coalition of 215 organizations that mobilized one million protesters across the U.S. on May 1, 2006, for the Great American Boycott.
We Are America Alliance – national network of hundreds of regional coalitions that mobilized 2 million protesters across the U.S. on April 10, 2006, and coordinated protests in the May 1 national protests
El Paro and the Day Without and Immigrant Coalition (Philadelphia Region) Philadelphia regional coalition of dozens of organizations invited and mobilized thousands of protesters in 7 marches from February 14 to April 10, 2006.
Kentucky Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights – Kentucky coalition that mobilized an estimated 10,000 people in downtown Lexington, Kentucky on April 10, 2006, with other mobilizations around the state.
March 25 Coalition – Southern California-based coalition that mobilized 750,000 protesters in Los Angeles on March 25, 2006
Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) – mobilized dozens of people in various counter-protests
Minuteman Project – held sporadic counter-protests in some major US cities
Typically anti-illegal immigration movements focus on grassroots recruiting tactics; the Minutemen Civil Defense Corps and Minuteman Project use these methods to boost membership. After the 2006 immigration reform protest, anti-immigration movement participation increased by 600%.
Anti-illegal immigration groups often do not pursue the same agenda in the same ways; however, they do form coalitions when their agendas match other movements. One of the major joint efforts that these groups engage in is access to mailing lists for individuals who have donated money in the past to support the movement; Federation for American Immigration Reform and Minutemen Civil Defense Corps have shared lists of mailers with one another in recent years.
Immigrant Nation! The Battle for the Dream, documentary movie
Carl Kline is a former U.S. White House official who was the director of the personnel security office in the Executive Office of U.S. President Donald Trump from May 2017 to January 2019. Prior to working for the White House, Kline was the Chief of Personnel Security for Security Policy and Oversight Directorate at the Department of Defense, and he returned to the Department after leaving the Executive Office.
Multiple sources stated in January 2019 that in at least 30 cases where professional security experts expressed concerns about granting top-secret clearance to specific Trump officials including Jared Kushner, Kline had overruled their concerns. In Kushner's case, a February 2019 New York Times article stated that Kline was carrying out Trump's instructions, but a May 2019 New York Times story clarified that Kline overruled instructions that were given to him and made decisions on his own accord. White House security experts had been overruled only once during the three years preceding the Trump administration.
Also in January 2019, one of Kline's staff members, Tricia Newbold, said Kline retaliated against her for raising concerns about security clearance practices and for discriminating against her on the basis of her height.
The House Oversight Committee subpoenaed Kline, who was at that time working for the Defense Department, to appear before the Committee for an interview on April 23. However White House deputy counsel Michael Purpura instructed Kline not to appear at the deposition, citing constitutional concerns. Kline eventually had a private meeting with the committee on May 1. He reportedly told the committee that he made all the decisions about security clearances himself and that no one in the White House instructed him or tried to influence him.
Timeline of investigations into Trump and Russia (2019)
Scope was a South African weekly men's lifestyle magazine. The magazine was launched in the 1960s and was controversial for challenging Apartheid-era South Africa's strict censorship laws with its bikini-clad cover girls. The weekly was published in Durban by Republican Press until its final issue in 1996. At its peak, it was South Africa's best-selling English magazine, with a circulation of 250,000.
The magazine was launched in 1966 by Winston Charles Hyman (Hint). Jack Shepherd Smith worked for Winston Charles Hyman (the owner of Republican Press at the time) and became the long-time editor. Scope magazine would achieve iconic status in South African media as a publication that petitioned for freedom of the press with its censorship-defying content. The magazine is also known for placing strategically placed black stars concealing certain body parts of the semi-nude models. The weekly also ran the Scope magazine "Girl of the Year" contest.
In 1972, the censor board of South Africa banned the weekly magazine, but this was overturned by the Supreme Court. This marked the seventh time in four years that the board had banned the magazine. The censor board had taken exception to a photograph published in May by the magazine, that showed a black man in New York City embracing a white woman. They also took exception to a semi-nude shoot of a model in the forest and at the beach. In other attempts, the board had formerly attempted to ban the magazine because of a cover article on abortion and a story on test tube babies. In 1975, editor Shepherd Smith maintained that fair censorship was impossible in South Africa because of the cultural diversity of the nation "Whose particular way of life are the censors going to help to uphold?". In May 1976, again the censor board issued a notice banning the magazine.
The magazine also covered important crime stories. In 1984 the weekly published a telephone interview with South Africa's most-wanted bank robber Allan Heyl of the Stander Gang who was in hiding in the UK at the time. The newspaper has also covered political stories and interviewed figures such as the spy Craig Williamson. Stories also appeared during the South African Border War that celebrated the military training of SADF soldiers and contributed to a sense of heroism. The weekly also published a series on the experiences of Horace Morgan, an ex-psychiatric patient who spent 37 years in mental institutions. Scope conducted interviews with Morgan (who had been admitted in 1937 after losing his memory) and reported the hostility of the institutions and Morgan's inability to escape the fate of a "wasted, tragic life in a cage".
Several notable journalists have contributed to the magazine. In 1990, former Sunday Times writer, Jani Allan launched the self-titled Jani Allan column at Scope. An article written by Allan on 5 October 1990, volume 25, number 20 in the magazine was presented to the South African parliament in 1991 in support of a legislation issue. As the apartheid regime crumbled in the 1990s and the magazine faced stiff competition from newcomers, the decision was made to make the magazine more risqué. This strategy was abandoned in 1995 when publishers, Republican Press sought to rebrand the magazine as an up-market men's general interest magazine. At the time, the editor, David Mullany said "it is time for the magazine to grow up ... and to address itself not merely to schoolboys and middle-aged voyeurs, but to the as-yet untapped body of discerning South African males who are desperate for something decent to read". However, the magazine suffered from heavy circulation losses and the final issue was published in 1996. In 1997, Mullany blamed religious elements in South Africa for the closure; "with the fire and brimstone shouts, the fundamentalists have made it impossible to sell our magazine".
The 1966 12 Hours of Sebring was an endurance race held at the 5.2 mile (8.3 km) Sebring International Raceway, in Sebring, Florida, United States on March 26, 1966. It was the sixteenth running of the endurance classic and the second round of the 1966 World Sportscar Championship season. The race proved to be a disastrous event; one of the darkest in American motorsports history.
Ford had just come off a 1-2-3 triumph at the first 24 Hours of Daytona in February, with two of their seven-liter engined GT40 Mk.II's being run by Carroll Shelby. They had effectively trounced Ferrari and Porsche, and were looking to do the same thing at Sebring in March.
Ford's assault on Sebring (which has always been a good preparation run for Le Mans) was unprecedented, considering that a mega-corporation like Ford was taking their endurance racing commitment so seriously. There were 11 GT40 Mk.I's, Mk.II's and a special X-1 Roadster (which was a heavily modified GT40 Mk.I with an aluminum chassis, a Mk.II nose, no roof and a seven-liter 427 engine, the same motor in a Mk.II) at Sebring- these cars were entered by at least five teams- all of whom had direct factory support. The two main works teams, however, were the Los Angeles-based Shelby-American, a team with direct connections to Ford and seasoned with much road-racing experience in Europe and North America; and the Charlotte-based Holman & Moody team, which was known for its successes in NASCAR. There were also two works Ferrari's (originally there were supposed to be 5) and two Chaparral 2D's. American Dan Gurney qualified his Shelby-entered Mk.II on pole position with a lap record of 2:54.6, followed by the new Ferrari 330P3 of Bob Bondurant and Mike Parkes, then a Mk.I of Britons Graham Hill and Jackie Stewart, then another Mk.II of Americans Mark Donohue and Walt Hansgen, then the X-1 of Briton Ken Miles and American Lloyd Ruby and then a Chaparral 2D of Americans Jim Hall and Hap Sharp.
Sportscar races in the 1960s usually had Le Mans starts (which had started the late 1920s), where the drivers who started the race stood on one side of the track, waited for the host country's starter flag to drop, ran across the track towards their cars, jumped into the cockpit and drove off. This happened at 10:30 a.m. American Eastern time, and Gurney, who started the race in the pole sitting car, did not get going. In fact, his Ford GT40 Mk.II's 7-liter engine would not start and the car sat on the pit straight motionless while all the other cars passed it. After huge amounts of time were lost, the Shelby mechanics were able to start the engine, and Gurney sped off. The works Ferrari 330P3 led the race until being passed by a GT40 Mk.I being driven by Graham Hill. Hill led the first lap, followed by the 330P3, a North American Racing Team entered 330P2, a Corvette Stingray being driven by local Dick Thompson, the Donohue/Hansgen Mk.II, 2 more Mk.I's, a Porsche and a Chaparral 2D being driven by Hap Sharp.
But Gurney's car was not out of contention. He drove very hard and passed 27 cars on the first lap alone. He continued to push hard and by the 44th lap, about 2 hours into the race- he set a new lap record of 2:54.8 at an average speed of 107.8 mph, and soon after he passed Miles in the GT40 X-1 Roadster to take the lead. Gurney and Miles, both driving Shelby entered cars, started to battle and began passing and re-passing each other for the lead. This did not sit well with Shelby, who signaled to both drivers to slow down because he felt it was way too early in the race to risk breaking the cars. This signal was promptly ignored by both drivers, so Shelby walked over to the pit wall and hammered his fist in the air at both drivers, indicating them to "knock it off." The drivers complied, and they simmered down into the 3-minute range, protecting Gurney who was in the lead.
1 hour and 20 minutes in, one of the Chaparrals driven by American Phil Hill and Swede Jo Bonnier retired with a persistent oil leak that had plagued their car all weekend. Hill admitted that the team could not find the leak in the car; it was eventually found but the car retired from the race. And eight laps later, the other Chaparral of Sharp and Hall retired with suspension problems. The cars had to take on 300 pounds of extra weight in order to comply with the rules, which hurt the car's performance and reliability.
But at 2:40 p.m., tragedy struck. A Comstock Racing entered GT40 Mk.I driven by Canadian Bob McLean was coming out of Big Bend, and while approaching the famous hairpin, the car's gearbox seized, the rear brakes locked up, and the car slid off the narrow service road used for the race. It then crashed into a ditch and started to barrel roll, and it then made very hard contact with a telephone pole. The point of contact was where one of the fuel tanks were, and the car burst into flames. McLean was trapped inside, and the few marshals at Sebring were inadequately equipped to put out the inferno, and McLean perished in the fire. He was 32 years old. When word of McLean's death reached the Comstock Racing camp, they withdrew their other GT40 Mk.I from the race.
But the race continued on, unabated as McLean's GT40 burned and burned. Safety in motor racing in those days was practically non-existent. One such example was that the Warehouse straight after the hairpin at Sebring ran right past warehouses, planes, towers and other obstructions that were completely unprotected from the race, and some people sometimes stood or even sat 2–3 feet from the track.
Come the halfway point, 4:30 p.m., the order was the Gurney/Jerry Grant GT40 Mk.II, the works 330P3 of Parkes/Bondurant, the Miles/Ruby GT40 X-1 and the Pedro Rodriguez/Mario Andretti Ferrari 365P2 entered by NART. Around Lap 172, during the transition from day to night, Bondurant showed up to the Ferrari camp on the back of a spectator's scooter. The 330P3 was parked out near the hairpin with a seized gearbox, and was effectively out. So the order was Ford 1-2 (both Shelby-run) with the NART Ferrari 3rd.
But then, disaster struck again. With less than 2 hours to go, the third placed NART 365P2 went into the pits, with Rodriguez going out and Andretti going in. Andretti took the car out, and on his first lap out, he was caught and passed (not for position) by Don Wester in a Porsche 906 going through the famous hairpin. On the Warehouse straight, Andretti re-passed Wester and pulled away from the Porsche. All of a sudden, while he was changing gears down from 4th to 3rd for the slow Webster turns at 140 mph, a part on the Ferrari's gearbox broke, and the car went from 4th to 1st, the rear wheels locked up and the Ferrari spun wildly out of control. While the hapless Andretti was spinning, Wester saw an opportunity to pass Andretti without incident. But Wester's plan failed appallingly- while underbraking for the Webster turns, the Ferrari was still going very quickly, and it then hit the back of Wester's Porsche. The Porsche spun out of control, went off the track, and it then went plowing into a group of spectators standing in an area where no one from the general public was allowed to be, and finally crashed hard into a warehouse, destroying the car. 4 spectators were killed in this tragedy- 46-year-old Willis Edenfield Sr. and his two sons, 20-year-old Willis Jr. and 9-year-old Mark were killed instantly, and 38-year-old Patricia Heacock died of her injuries hours later. Wester was knocked unconscious, but he survived with minor injuries; and this horrific incident was not known to the public until the day after.
The Ferrari went into a sand bank, and Andretti was able to get going again, but his front lights were destroyed after his contact with Wester and the sandbank, so he drove back to the pits in almost total darkness. He made it back to the pits, unaware of the horror that had taken place. The car retired after a pit fire when Andretti started the engine, destroying a number of important components, making it unable to continue.
This essentially paved the way forward for Ford to dominate yet again, with both Shelby GT40's leading 1–2. Gurney and Grant were still leading- and on the last lap, while Gurney was driving, the car's engine failed. People at the pits were expecting Gurney to take victory—but Ken Miles crossed the finish line first in the GT40 X-1. Gurney was pushing his GT40 Mk.II on the course, and he made it to the finish line. Pushing a car during the race was illegal, particularly with no lights on or with any reference of visibility, thus Gurney's GT40 car was disqualified, and the Holman/Moody entered GT40 Mk.II was awarded 2nd place. 3rd was an Essex Wire entered GT40 Mk.I of Skip Scott and Peter Revson, and then a works Porsche finished 4th.
After the race, chief race organizer Alec Ullmann and the other people involved in the organization of the race were heavily criticized for their lack of safety preparation, particularly for the McLean GT40 Mk.I accident. The facilities and the track at Sebring were also heavily criticized- the track was very narrow and people and buildings were unprotected from the cars, and the cars were unprotected from other roadside obstructions such as telephone poles, trees, and ditches. Because of the poor condition of Sebring's facilities and the difficulty in maintaining security at the track which led to the deaths of 5 people, a ten-year contract was signed to move the 12-hour event to West Palm Beach, Florida, at what later became known as Moroso Motorsports Park. An unusual series of heavy rains at West Palm Beach made it obvious that the track could not be ready in time for the 1967 race. Thus the contract was voided and the 12-hour event was again held at Sebring after efforts were made to improve safety for spectators and drivers, which included the elimination of the Webster turns and the implementation of the Warehouse chicane. This was done to move the track's Warehouse straight further away from the airport's warehouses, towers and other buildings located from where the original Warehouse straight ran through. Sebring has held the 12-hour event every year since. The circuit, located in an airport, never had any safety issues ever again.
Pole position: #2 Shelby-American Inc. Ford GT40 Mk.II (Dan Gurney)- 2:54.6 (qualifying record)
Fastest lap: #2 Shelby-American Inc. Ford GT40 Mk.II (Dan Gurney)- 2:54.8 (lap record)
Judges who have served on the Supreme Court of NSW as of February 2020 include :
It does not include Judge Advocates of NSW who sat on the Court of Civil Jurisdiction between 1788 and 1814 nor judges of the Supreme Court of Civil Judicature of NSW between 1814 and 1823.
Melbourne tram route 6 is operated by Yarra Trams on the Melbourne tram network from Moreland to Glen Iris. The 19.2-kilometre (11.9 mi) route is operated out of Brunswick and Malvern depots with Z, D1 and D2 class trams.
Route 6 was allocated to the line between Glen Iris and City (Swanston Street) on 21 November 1929, the same day that numbers were allocated to the rest of the Swanston Street trams. Trams traditionally terminated at the Victoria Street terminus, but following an accident in 1991, trams instead terminated at the Queensberry Street crossover. Due to congestion during peak hours at the crossover, some trams continued north to Melbourne University. Finally on 17 January 1996, a permanent shunt was built at Melbourne University. From then on, route 6 trams were altered run full-time to Melbourne University.
The origins of route 6 lie in separate tram lines. The section of track between Queensberry Street (Stop 4) and High Street (Stop 27) is the oldest section of this route, dating back to the Brighton Road cable tram which opened on 11 October 1888 by the Melbourne Tramway & Omnibus Company. This cable tram line was electrified in stages by the Melbourne & Metropolitan Tramways Board. The section between Domain Interchange (Stop 20) and High Street was electrified on 27 December 1925. The section between Queensberry Street and City Road (near Stop 14) was electrified on the same day. The line between City Road and Domain Interchange was electrified on 24 January 1926.
The section between Charles Street (near Stop 30) and Tooronga Road (Stop 48) was one of the original lines constructed by the Prahran & Malvern Tramways Trust (PMTT), which opened on 30 May 1910. This line was extended west to Punt Road on 14 March 1911 and again, to St Kilda Road on 14 September 1912, connecting with the St Kilda Road cable tram to the city. The PMTT extended the line again on 25 March 1914, this time east, to its current terminus at Malvern Road. Meanwhile, the Melbourne, Brunswick & Coburg Tramways Trust constructed the section of route 6 north of Queensberry Street towards Moreland. This section opened on 31 October 1916.
On 1 May 2017, as part of works associated with the closure of Domain Interchange and construction of Anzac railway station, route 6 was extended from Melbourne University to Moreland to partly replace route 8.
In August 2025, B class trams were removed from route 6 due to a driver roster change, and now are only seen on the route occasionally.
Route 6 operates from Brunswick tram depot travelling east along Moreland Road before turning south along Holmes Street in Brunswick East. It continues south to Albion Street where it doglegs into Lygon Street, continuing south through Carlton North and Carlton, turning west into Elgin Street and south into Swanston Street at Melbourne University. It proceeds south via Melbourne Central station and Flinders Street stations. After crossing the Yarra River it continues south along St Kilda Road. It turns east into High Street, traversing via Prahran, Windsor, Armadale and Malvern to its terminus at Malvern Road, Glen Iris.
Route 6 is operated out of Brunswick and Malvern depots with Z, D1 and D2 class trams. On 30 November 2002, the first D class trams entered service on the route. B class trams were also used regularly until August 2025.
Media related to Melbourne tram route 6 at Wikimedia Commons
The People's Republican Party of Russia (NRPR, Russian: Народно-республиканская партия России (НРПР)) was a Russian political party.
The party was officially registered on 27 December 1996 by Alexander Lebed following his strong performance in the 1996 Russian presidential election. Lebed announced his intention for the NRPR to take part in upcoming elections. In 1999, polls showed the party to be supported by 4-5% of voters. Despite successes in regional elections in 1996–98, the party declined following the election of Lebed as governor of Krasnoyarsk Krai, and was not able to register for the 1999 legislative election. The party ultimately declined following Lebed's death in 2002.
In late 2002, the party was re-registered legally as the Political Party "People's Republican Party of Russia" (Russian: Политическая Партия "Народно-Республиканская Партия России"), and on 13 February 2007 it was dissolved by the Supreme Court of Russia.
The NPRP was oriented around the popularity of Alexander Lebed and was a populist party. Lebed claimed the party represented a "third way" between the Communist Party and the pro-Yeltsin parties.
Pelayo Morilla Cabal (born 12 July 2001) is a Spanish retired footballer who played as a right winger, last played for Teruel.
Born in Oviedo, Asturias, Morilla was a Sporting de Gijón youth graduate. On 21 September 2017, while still a youth, he signed a professional five-year deal with the club.
Morilla made his senior debut with the reserves on 7 January 2018, coming on as a late substitute in a 5–3 Segunda División B away win against Gernika Club. He made his first-team debut on 18 August, replacing Pablo Pérez in a 1–1 away draw against AD Alcorcón in the Segunda División.
On 14 September 2018, Morilla scored his first goal, netting a free kick for the 2–0 in a 2–1 away win in that season's Copa del Rey against Numancia. On 21 July 2021, after featuring mainly for the B-side, he was loaned to Primera División RFEF side Algeciras CF for the campaign.
The National Association for Biomedical Research (NABR) is an American nonprofit organization, 501(c)(6), located in Washington, DC. NABR was formed in 1985 when the Association of Biomedical Research merged with the National Society for Medical Research The NABR advocates for the continued use of animals in biomedical research albeit in as humane a manner as possible.
NABR reports to provide the unified voice for the scientific community on legislative and regulatory matters affecting laboratory animal research over its 30-year history. NABR has worked to ensure that biomedical research using animals remains possible, acting on behalf of approximately 300 public and private universities, medical and veterinary schools, teaching hospitals, voluntary health agencies, professional societies, pharmaceutical and biotech companies, and other animal research-related interests. These members are involved directly in the use of animals in biomedical research, committed to the responsible and humane use of these animals, and dependent upon innovations in medical research to advance the agenda of curing disease.
The association is the only national, nonprofit organization dedicated solely to advocating for a public policy that recognizes what has been described as the vital role that animals play in biomedical research. Its advocacy activities have included representing the views of its members to Congress through encouraging supportive legislation, providing comments on pending proposals, presenting testimony at Congressional hearings, and serving as an information source for Congressional staff and constituents.
The association has actively supported and promoted the humane care and treatment of laboratory animals in biomedical research, training, and education, and its members practice the “Three Rs” in these endeavors:
that only as many animals as reasonably necessary be utilized (Reduce)
that any pain or distress animals experience be minimized (Refine)
that alternatives to the use of live animals be employed or developed wherever feasible (Replace)
The policy position by the biomedical research community that is represented by NABR, is that it is not now possible to completely replace the use of animals in biomedical research, and that the study of whole, living organisms is and will remain an indispensable element of biomedicine that is beneficial to both veterinary and human health. NABR's sister organization is the Foundation for Biomedical Research.
In 1979, the proposed Health Research Modernization Act established a National Center for Alternative Research. The legislation would have mandated that 30-50 percent of federal dollars currently spent on animal research be diverted to study alternatives. This legislative initiative provided the impetus to establish an organization that would educate lawmakers about animal research. In 1979, the "Research Animal Alliance", a group of companies and individuals seeking to protect animal research, formed in Boston, MA and successfully guided legislation that would affect the future of biomedical research relying on animal models.
In 1981 the RAA changed its name to the Association for Biomedical Research (ABR). Greater than 80 percent of members responded the first time ABR mobilized its membership for comments to the United States Congress on the use of animals in research.
In 1981 ABR President Dr. Edward C. Melby testified before Congress on the important role of animals in medical research. saying that "the peer review system of the major granting agencies, including the NIH, the editorial review process for originality of thought by scientific journals and the cost-effectiveness of private industry prevent most so-called unnecessary animal experiments.”
In September 1984, the ABR office relocated to Washington, D.C., in response to increasing congressional interest. In 1985, the ABR merged with the National Society for Medical Research to become the National Association for Biomedical Research (NABR). During debate on the 1985 reauthorization of the Farm bill, NABR successfully obtained modifications to the Animal Welfare Act amendments that aimed to provide a consistent and reasonable framework in which research facilities can operate.
In 1986, as an advocate of a strong national enforcement program of animal research facilities, the association joined with 100 scientific and animal welfare organizations to urge adequate funding for the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).
The association lead a broad-based coalition to the passage of the Animal Enterprise Protection Act of 1992. NABR also helped defeat several policies, including the Information Dissemination and Research Accountability Act", that it considered would have put obstacles in the way of research.
During reauthorization of the 2002 Farm bill, the association was successful in obtaining a statutory exemption under the Animal Welfare Act of coverage of rats, mice and birds used for research. The association argued that these species are covered under other protective guidelines, policies and regulations.
In 2006, NABR was central in the effort that lead to the enactment of the Animal Enterprise Terrorism Act (AETA), which was signed into law on November 27, 2006, by President George W. Bush".
Since its inception, the association has represented the scientific community to policymakers. At times of increased animal activist campaigns against researchers by the animal rights movement, It worked to furnish legislators with facts from the biomedical research community, and educated them on the impact proposed changes would have on the progress of medical research. It led the biomedical community's participation in the legislative process, served as a resource for scientists targeted by the animal rights movement, and played a central role in assuring that federal laws met animal welfare and biomedical research needs.
Andrew Fish is a professional disc golfer, former civil engineer, and collegiate ultimate frisbee player from Baltimore, Maryland. Fish joined the Professional Disc Golf Association in 2013, and became a professional in 2013.
Fish was a civil engineer for Baltimore County, Maryland, specializing in environmental engineering and water resources until 2022.
Fish began playing disc golf in college with the Georgia Tech Disc Golf Team, and within a month of beginning to play, he was the best player on the team. During that time, he competed in the 2013 National Collegiate Disc Golf Championship, where he finished in ninth place.
In 2022, Fish transitioned to being a full time touring disc golf professional.
Fish's notable wins include, the 2018, 2019, and 2021 Warwick Disc Golf Championship, 2021 New Jersey State Championship, 2018 Stafford Open, 2017 Delaware Disc Golf Challenge, the 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 Seneca Creek Soiree, 2019 Firefly Hollow Open, and 2015 Eric Yetter Champions Cup.
From June 2013 to mid 2022, he only missed cashing at a professional tournament twice, at the 2013 Madisonville Open, and the 2015 United States Disc Golf Championship.
Since 2017, alongside Allie Stone, Fish has directed the Women's Open of Maryland.
In 150 career PDGA tournaments, Fish has accumulated 53 wins and $64,783 in winnings.
In 2020, Fish resigned with sponsor Discraft for a fifth season with the disc manufacturer, and maintains a bag sponsorship with Upper Park Disc Golf. He commonly carries the following discs in competition:
Fish played college ultimate at Georgia Institute of Technology, beginning in the 2007–08 season, playing for five seasons. As a graduate student, he was named to the Southeast All-Region second team by USA Ultimate in 2012.
The Roman Catholic Metropolitan Archdiocese of Panamá (erected 28 August 1513 as the Diocese of Santa María de La Antigua del Darién) is a Metropolitan Archdiocese, and its suffragan dioceses include Chitré, Colón-Kuna Yala, David, Penonomé and Santiago de Veraguas, as well as the Territorial Prelature of Bocas del Toro. The Diocese of Santa María de La Antigua del Darién was originally located upriver from the mouth of the Atrato River on the Gulf of Urabá in the Castilla de Oro province.
The see was moved to Panama City and renamed as the Diocese of Panamá on 7 December 1520 and elevated to an archdiocese on 29 November 1925. The current Metropolitan Archbishop of Panama is Archbishop Jose Domingo Ulloa Mendieta, O.S.A.
Diocese of Santa María de La Antigua del Darién
Juan de Quevedo Villegas, O.F.M. (1513–1519)
Juan José Maíztegui y Besoitaiturria, C.M.F. (1933–1943)
Marcos Gregorio McGrath, C.S.C. (1969–1994)
José Dimas Cedeño Delgado (1994–2010); Archbishop Emeritus
Jose Domingo Ulloa Mendieta, O.S.A. (2010–present)
Juan Francisco del Rosario Manfredo y Ballestas (1845-1847)
Juan José Maíztegui y Besoitaiturria, C.M.F. (1932-1933), appointed Archbishop here
Francisco Beckmann, C.M. (1940-1945), appointed Archbishop here
Marcos G. McGrath, C.S.C. (1961-1964), appointed Bishop of Santiago de Veraguas (later returned here as Archbishop0
Carlos Ambrosio Lewis Tullock, S.V.D. (1965-1986), appointed Coadjutor Bishop of David
José Luis Lacunza Maestrojuán, O.A.R. (1985-1994), appointed Bishop of Chitré; future Cardinal
Oscar Mario Brown Jiménez (1985-1994), appointed Bishop of Santiago de Veraguas
Fernando Torres Durán (1996-1999), appointed Bishop of Chitré
José Domingo Ulloa Mendieta, O.S.A. (2004-2010), appointed Archbishop here
Uriah Adolphus Ashley Maclean (2015-2019)
José María Carrizo Villarreal, appointed Bishop of Chitré in 1963
Rafael Valdivieso Miranda, appointed Bishop of Chitré in 2013
Archbishop : Jose Domingo Ulloa Mendieta, O.S.A.
Arquidiócesis de Panamá Archived 2007-02-24 at the Wayback Machine official site (in Spanish)
"Archdiocese of Panamá". Catholic-Hierarchy. Retrieved 2007-02-16. [self-published]
Herbermann, Charles, ed. (1913). "Republic and Diocese of Panama" . Catholic Encyclopedia. New York: Robert Appleton Company.
The Silvercraft SH-4 is an Italian three-seater light helicopter designed and built by Silvercraft SpA.
The Silvercraft SH-4 was the first Italian designed helicopter to gain Italian and FAA certification. The prototype was first flown in October 1963 with development assisted with both financial and technical help from SIAI-Marchetti. The helicopter was a conventional design with two-blade main rotor and tail rotor, a skid landing gear and a high-set tubular corrugated tailboom. It is powered by either a 200 hp (149 kW) or 235 hp (175 kW) Franklin 6A-350 engines which have been flat-rated to 170 hp (127 kW). Some SH-4s were equipped with Lycoming LHIO-360-C1A engines of 205 hp (153 kW).
Two aircraft were evaluated by the Italian Air Force.
An upgraded development, the SH-200 was developed from the SH-4 but was only flown as a prototype.
Italian Air Force operated one Silvercraft SH-4 for evaluation test
Data from Jane's All The World's Aircraft 1976–77General characteristics
200 L (53 US gal; 44 imp gal) chemicals (crop-spraying version)
Length: 7.65 m (25 ft 1 in) (fuselage length)
Fuel capacity: 130 L (34 US gal; 29 imp gal)
Powerplant: 1 × Franklin 6A-350-D1B air-cooled flat-six engine, 175 kW (235 hp) (derated to 130 kW (170 hp))
Cruise speed: 117 km/h (73 mph, 63 kn) (econ. cruise)
Hover ceiling: 3,000 m (9,800 ft) (in ground effect)
Taylor, John W. R. (1976). Jane's All The World's Aircraft 1976–77. London: Janee's Yearbooks. ISBN 0-354-00538-3.
Taylor, Michael J. H. (1989). Jane's Encyclopedia of Aviation. London: Studio Editions.
The Illustrated Encyclopedia of Aircraft (Part Work 1982-1985). Orbis Publishing.
The Hope Waddell Training Institution (HOWAD) is a school in Calabar, Cross River State, Nigeria. It was founded by missionaries from the United Presbyterian Church of Scotland in 1895. It is named after the Reverend Hope Masterton Waddell.
Mary Slessor was a driving force behind the establishment of HOWAD.
The school started in 1895. Slessor landed in Calabar in 1876.
The Scottish missionary Mary Mitchell Slessor, who had done much work with the Efik people around Calabar, was a driving force behind the establishment of the Institute.
Edinburgh was hesitant about accepting Slessor's demand to establish an industrial training center, but eventually decided to set up an institute on similar lines to its two existing ones in Africa, Lovedale Institute in South Africa and Livingstonia in Nyasaland.
Robert Laws, a United Presbyterian minister who had been involved with both of these institutions for a long time, was sent to make a feasibility study.
Laws expressed complete confidence that the success of the other two schools could be replicated in Calabar.
The first school building was a prefabricated classroom block of corrugated iron sheets and Scandinavian pitch pine, built by a Glasgow firm and shipped to Calabar, where it was assembled in 1894.
By 1900 the school had forty-two students.
Two were doing gardening, five printing, eight tailoring, five engineering, eleven carpentry and eleven baking.
According to Henry Carr the boys were "well disciplined, and their appearance... cheerful and healthy." They generally spoke English well and had good penmanship.
However, the instruction programs were somewhat haphazard, dictated by whatever job the department was undertaking at any given time.
The school was more expensive than other missions, since it required machinery for industrial training, and by 1902 the mission was forced to accept government funding.
As the school became established, competition for places became intense since graduates were guaranteed employment by the government, the mission or other local businesses, or had the opportunity to go on to higher studies.
The balance of pupils, at first dominated by coastal communities, gradually shifted to include more from the hinterland. In 1919 the school had 31 Ibibio pupils compared to 82 Efik.
By 1927 there were over 50 Ibibio pupils and by 1931 86 Ibibio, with 119 Efik.
But students came to the school from all over West Africa, including Sierra Leone, Liberia, Ghana, Dahomey, the Cameroons and Fernando Po.
The school provided practical training to male students in carpentry, masonry, blacksmithing, coopering, naval engineering, brickmaking and bricklaying. Female students were taught dress-making and tailoring, domestic science and accountancy. The school soon became the largest vocational training institution in West Africa.
The school maintained a vessel on the Calabar River, "The Diamond" for use by students studying maritime subjects.
The region of Calabar called Diamond Hill takes its name from the vessel.
In 1898 the school began teaching tailoring and bakery, with the products sold in the city markets.
Agricultural students who worked on maintaining the botanical gardens and public parks in Calabar were given free board, clothing and tuition and some pocket money.
They showed that new plants to the region including mango, banana, coffee and especially lemon and orange could flourish, although local farmers resisted these innovations.
In 1902, Rev. James Luke introduced soccer into the timetable despite opposition by parents, who thought it was a waste of time.
Luke defended the sport as being healthy and teaching children cooperation and self-discipline.
In the first two decades of the twentieth century, many Hope Waddell graduates moved to Lagos, from 1906 the capital of the new Protectorate of Southern Nigeria, to take white-collar jobs with the government. They brought with them their love of soccer, fostering the growth of teams in the city.
Luke, who had picked up the game during seven years as a missionary in Jamaica, could thus perhaps be credited with introducing soccer to Nigeria.
A large flat-bed printing Wharfedale press was donated by "friends in Scotland" in 1903 and was still in use after 1960. Students worked in the print works and also as journalists on the Observer, Calabar's first newspaper, which was produced on the mission press.
In 1903 the HWTI added classes in typing, shorthand, bookkeeping, business management and commerce.
The school also included a standard all-ages school section giving primary and secondary education, with fees required for secondary school students. In 1921 Calabar was designated by the government as a secondary examination center for the Cambridge Local Examination. That year 8 students passed the examination out of 14 candidates from HWTI, which was considered an excellent result.
After independence in 1960, followed by closure of the Presbyterian mission, the school became a standard state secondary school.
Today it basically runs a grammar school curriculum.
The buildings were allowed to deteriorate, the gardens were neglected, and of 2,000 students less than 200 are boarders.
In 1994 the Old Boys Association launched a program to rehabilitate the school, with a fund-raising drive.
Goals were to tar the access roads, install an electricity generator, renovate the science laboratories, equip the school library and erect a statue of Hope Waddell.
By 2005, most of these goals had been met.
Eni Njoku (born 6 November 1917), first vice-chancellor of the University of Lagos
John Ogbu (9 May 1939 – 20 August 2003), Nigerian-American anthropologist and professor
Kingsley O. Mbadiwe (1915–1990), nationalist, politician, statesman and former government minister
Dennis Osadebay (29 June 1911 – 26 December 1994), politician, poet, journalist and premier of the Mid-Western Region of Nigeria
Akanu Ibiam (1906–1995), medical missionary, Governor of Eastern Region, Nigeria (December 1960 – January 1966).
Alex Mascot Ikwechegh, politician, businessman and philanthropist
Anya Oko Anya (born 3 January 1937), professor of parasitology
Eyo Ita (born 1904), leader of the Eastern Government of Nigeria in 1951
Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe (16 November 1904 – 11 May 1996), Nigeria's first president
Eze Cyril Akagbulem Unamka OBE, MBE (1887 – March 1983), First Paramount Ruler of Mbaise County and Life President of Mbaise County Court
Vice Admiral Edet Akinwale Wey, Chief of Naval Staff and later Chief of Staff Supreme Headquarters
Senator Joseph Oqua Ansa, second republic senator representing Cross River southern senatorial district
Aye, Efiong U. (1986). Hope Waddell Training Institution: Life and Work (1894-1978). Paico. ISBN 978-2446-13-0.
Brage Golding (April 28, 1920 - August 24, 2016) was an American chemical engineer and president of five universities including Wright State University, San Diego State University, and Kent State University. He was also the father of Susan Golding, a California politician and the mayor of San Diego.
Brage Golding was born into a Jewish family on April 28, 1920, in Chicago. He earned a B.S. in chemical engineering from Purdue University and began graduate study in chemistry at the University of Chicago. He served over four years in the U.S. Army Field Artillery during World War II, and left the military as a major in 1946. Golding returned to Purdue and worked as an instructor in mathematics and Lilly Fellow in chemical engineering. He received a Ph.D. from Purdue in 1948.
One of Golding’s earliest jobs after his military service was as assistant director of research at the Lilly Varnish Company. He became director of research at the Lilly Varnish Company and visiting professor of engineering at Purdue in 1957. In that same year he published a major textbook in the field, Polymers and Resins: Their Chemistry and Engineering. In 1959 he was appointed Dean of Purdue’s School of Chemical Engineering. He later served as vice president at both Miami University (Ohio) and the Ohio State University.
In 1966, Golding was appointed the first president of Wright State University. He became president of San Diego State University in 1972 and served there until 1977. He was president of Kent State University from 1977 to 1982. He later served as acting president at both Metropolitan State University of Denver and Western State University in Gunnison, Colorado.
AAAS Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science
Honored by Wright State through the Brage Golding Distinguished Professor of Research
In 1975, Golding was the last president of the California State University system to resist arming his campus police force, but he gave in under a directive from the CSU Chancellor. He continued to have conflicts with the Chancellor and the California legislature throughout his tenure at SDSU.
Golding was the subject of criticism during his time at Kent State, primarily because he decided to build a gymnasium near the site of the 1970 Kent State University shooting.
Golding was married to Hinda F. Wolf for 48 years until she died in 1989. Together they had one son and two daughters, including the politician Susan Golding. Golding died on August 24, 2016, in San Diego at age 96.
Golding's archives are held in Special Collections in the Malcolm A. Love Library at San Diego State University and in the University Libraries at Kent State University.
Shelby's Iron Brigade, also known as the Missouri Iron Brigade, was a Confederate cavalry brigade, led by Brigadier General Joseph O. Shelby, in the Trans-Mississippi Theater of the American Civil War.
The Iron Brigade nickname was created by Joseph O. Shelby's former adjutant, John Newman Edwards, in his 1867 account, Shelby and His Men.
Shelby's Iron Brigade was originally formed in 1863, under orders from Major General Thomas C. Hindman, following a successful recruiting expedition into Missouri by Joseph O. Shelby, Upton Hays and John T. Coffee, who each recruited a regiment of cavalry. These new regiments - Shelby's 5th, Hays's 11th and Coffee's 6th (redesignated as 12th), were brigaded under the command of Colonel Shelby.
Shelby's Iron Brigade based themselves in Arkansas and participated in four major raids into Missouri during the war, earning a reputation as the most formidable brigade in the theater.
Shelby was promoted to Brigadier General, following his successful raid of 1863. When Shelby later assumed division command, he was replaced by M. Jeff Thompson. The brigade remained in Shelby's Division in the Army of Missouri and fought in Maj. Gen. Sterling Price's Missouri Expedition in 1864—saving Price's army from destruction several times, including the retreat at the Battle of Marmiton River.
In the autumn of 1864, some 1,500 of Shelby’s Iron Brigade cavalry surrounded Sedalia, Missouri and overpowered local Union militia defenders. They began to loot and sack the town on October 15, 1864. Once General Thompson arrived in Sedalia, he ordered his men to stop the destruction and moved them on, leaving Sedalia once again in Union hands.
Later, the Missouri Iron Brigade distinguished themselves at the 1864 battles of Little Blue River and Westport, and captured many towns from their Union garrisons, including Potosi, Boonville, Waverly, Stockton, Lexington, and California, Missouri.
Rather than surrender in 1865 with the collapse of the Confederacy, Shelby and his men rode south into Mexico in June, where they offered their services to Emperor Maximilian, who declined to accept the ex-Confederates into his armed forces. However, the emperor did grant them land for an American colony in Mexico, and many of Shelby's Iron Brigade settled on the free land.
List of Missouri Confederate Civil War units
Buresh, Lumir F., October 25 and the Battle of Mine Creek, The Lowell Press, 1977.
Edwards, John N., Shelby and His Men, Cincinnati: Miami Printing and Publishing Co., 1867.
Mueller, D.L., M. Jeff Thompson: Missouri’s Swamp Fox of the Confederacy, University of Missouri Press, 2007. ISBN 0-8262-1724-9.
Sellmeyer, Deryl P, Jo Shelby's Iron Brigade, Pelican Publishing, 2007
Boston and Maine 3713, also known as the "Constitution", is the sole survivor of the P-4a class 4-6-2 "Heavy Pacific" type steam locomotives. It was built in December 1934 by the Lima Locomotive Works for the Boston and Maine Railroad (B&M), hauling passenger trains around the New England region. In 1956, No. 3713 was given the duty to haul B&M's Steam Safari excursion from Boston, Massachusetts to Portland, Maine, and return.
Afterwards, the locomotive was purchased by New England millionaire F. Nelson Blount for his Steamtown, U.S.A. collection. After Blount died in 1967, No. 3713 was loaned to the Boston Museum of Science for static display. In 1985, No. 3713 was returned to Steamtown, which had moved to Scranton, Pennsylvania, one year prior.
When Steamtown was nationalized as Steamtown National Historic Site, work began in 1995 to restore No. 3713 to operating condition for use in pulling excursion trains. It was the focus of Project 3713, a partnership between the National Park Service and the Lackawanna & Wyoming Valley Railway Historical Society. As of 2026, restoration work on the No. 3713 locomotive is still ongoing.
No. 3713 was the fourth member of five "P-4a" class heavy 4-6-2 Pacifics (Nos. 3710-3714) ordered by the Boston and Maine (B&M) in December 1934 at the Lima Locomotive Works (LLW) in Lima, Ohio, at a cost of $100,000. These locomotives were originally built with smoke deflectors, a single air compressor mounted on their pilot deck, and a metal sky-lining shroud covering up the top of their boiler thus giving them a semi-streamlined appearance. In 1936, the B&M ordered the final batch of five Pacifics (Nos. 3715-3719) which were delivered in March 1937 as the last Pacifics to be built by Lima. Slightly classified as P-4b, they were delivered with smoke deflectors but without the sky-lining shroud.
Designed with 80 in (2,032 mm) driving wheels, a larger firebox, and a massive boiler, the P-4 Heavy Pacifics would easily cruise at a speed of 70 miles per hour, carrying enough coal to pull a 14-car train for about 250 miles, and enough water to last about 125 miles. During World War II, all of the P-4s had their sky-lining shrouds and smoke deflectors removed for easier maintenance. Around 1944 or 1945, a second air compressor was added on all of the locomotives' pilot deck. They were assigned to haul B&M's high priority passenger trains such as the Minute Man, Alouette, Red Wing, and Flying Yankee all over the New England states.
The B&M sponsored the New England school students a contest to give all five P-4a and five other P-4b names. On December 11, 1937, No. 3713 was officially named The Constitution by J. Schumann Moore, a 14-year-old student from Eastern High School in Lynn, Massachusetts. Between 1940 and 1941, other winning names were selected to P-4a Pacifics No. 3710 as Peter Cooper, No. 3711 as Allagash, No. 3712 as East Wind, and No. 3714 as Greylock. While the P-4b Pacifics Nos. 3715 to 3719 were also named Kwasind, Rogers’ Rangers, Old North Bridge, Ye Salem Witch, and Camel’s Hump, respectively. Each locomotive all has a plaque representing the students' name and their respective educated school.
After being withdrawn from passenger duties by newer diesel locomotives in the mid 1950s, No. 3713 became a stationary boiler to melt the snow and heat the passenger cars at the North Station terminal in Boston, Massachusetts. It was recalled to road service to cover for diesel locomotives during a flood, presumably in relation with the events of Hurricane Diane which affected the area at that time. On April 22, 1956, No. 3713 ran the Steam Safari excursion round trip between Boston and Portland, Maine, and was officially retired from revenue service in July 1956.
On June 11, 1958, the No. 3713 locomotive was purchased by New England millionaire F. Nelson Blount as part of his Steamtown, U.S.A. collection at the Edaville Railroad in South Carver, Massachusetts, then Pleasure Island park in Wakefield, Massachusetts, before it was moved to North Walpole, New Hampshire in 1961, and finally Bellows Falls, Vermont in 1964. In October 1969, Steamtown put No. 3713 on a long-term loan to the Boston Museum of Science (MoS). The locomotive was moved to the B&M’s shops in Billerica, Massachusetts for a cosmetic restoration, and then it was put on static display outside the MoS’ building.
In February 1985, the MoS decided to end their lease with No. 3713, since they were looking into expanding their main building, and the locomotive was deemed too large to fit indoors. Multiple offers were made to purchase No. 3713 to keep it in Boston, but Steamtown opted to retain it and reunite it with their collection, which had relocated to Scranton, Pennsylvania the previous year. Steamtown considered restoring No. 3713 to operating condition, but at the time, they decided against it, since its running gear was found to be in poor condition.
In 1995, shortly after the grand opening of Steamtown National Historic Site, Steamtown decided to restore an American-built mainline steam locomotive for excursion service via partnership with the Lackawanna and Wyoming Valley Railway Chapter (L&WVRHS) of the National Railway Historical Society (NRHS), and they narrowed down their options to evaluate either No. 3713 or Nickel Plate Road 759. Despite No. 759's better condition and greater pulling power, No. 3713 was chosen, due to its appeal as a rare surviving B&M locomotive, and it was disassembled while the Project3713 was launched. The estimated restoration work cost was $1.4 million, which required repairs to the boiler, air compressors, feedwater heater, and pilot truck. During 2011, the No. 3713 locomotive received new firebox grates, sheets, and thermic siphons, which were fabricated by Diversified Rail Services.
In October 2017, the driving wheels were sent to be repaired by the Strasburg Rail Road (SRC) in Strasburg, Pennsylvania for crankpin and axle work until they returned to Steamtown in spring 2019. In late August 2018, Steamtown gave SRC a $148,600 contract to build a brand new firebox for the No. 3713 locomotive. In October 2018, No. 3713 received three new safety valves, which were built by the SRC. In October 2019, the new firebox arrived at Steamtown and installed on the No. 3713 locomotive. In September 2023, Steamtown's formal partnership with L&WVRHS had ended, and the latter deposited the funds needed for No. 3713 into an account made specifically for the restoration. Once restored to operating condition, No. 3713 will eventually become the replacement for both Canadian National 3254 and Canadian Pacific 2317.
Drury, George H. (2015). Guide to North American Steam Locomotives (2nd ed.). Kalmbach Media. ISBN 978-1-62700-259-2.
Heald, Bruce D. (2001). Boston and Maine in the 20th Century. Images of Rail (1st ed.). Arcadia Publishing. ISBN 0-7385-0547-1.
McLaughlin, Robert (2009). Pleasure Island. Images of America (1st ed.). Arcadia Publishing. ISBN 978-0-7385-6460-9.
Frye, Harry A. (1982). Minuteman Steam: Boston & Maine Steam Locomotives, 1911-1958 (1st ed.). Boston and Maine Railroad Historical Society. ISBN 0-916578-04-6.
Chappell, Gordon (1989). Steam Over Scranton: The Locomotives of Steamtown. U.S. Department of the Interior, National Park Service. pp. 41–43.
The National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC) is a United States information and referral center in support of polar and cryospheric research. NSIDC archives and distributes digital and analog snow and ice data and also maintains information about snow cover, avalanches, glaciers, ice sheets, freshwater ice, sea ice, ground ice, permafrost, atmospheric ice, paleoglaciology, and ice cores.
NSIDC is part of the University of Colorado Boulder Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), and is affiliated with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) National Centers for Environmental Information through a cooperative agreement. NSIDC serves as one of twelve Distributed Active Archive Centers funded by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to archive and distribute data from NASA's past and current satellites and field measurement programs. NSIDC also supports the National Science Foundation through the Exchange For Local Observations and Knowledge of the Arctic (ELOKA) and other scientific research grants. NSIDC is also a member of the ICSU World Data System. Mark Serreze is the director of NSIDC.
The World Data Center (WDC) for Glaciology, Boulder, a data center responsible for archiving all available glaciological information, was established at the American Geographical Society under Dr. William O. Field, Director, in 1957. Between 1971 and 1976 it was operated by the U.S. Geological Survey, Glaciology Project Office, under the direction of Dr. Mark F. Meier.
In 1976, responsibility for the WDC for Glaciology was transferred to NOAA, Environmental Data and Information Service (EDIS), and the center moved to the University of Colorado at Boulder under the direction of Professor Roger G. Barry. In 1982, NOAA created the National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC) as a means to expand the WDC holdings and as a place to archive data from some NOAA programs. In the 1980s and 1990s, support to NSIDC widened with NASA funding for the Snow and Ice Distributed Active Archive Center (DAAC) and NSF funding to manage selected Arctic and Antarctic data and metadata.
1957–58: First International Geophysical Year
1957: U.S. National Committee for the IGY awards the operation of WDC-A for Glaciology to the American Geographical Society
1970: WDC for Glaciology transfers from the American Geographical Society to the U.S. Geological Survey in Tacoma, Washington
1976: WDC for Glaciology transfers from the U.S. Geological Survey in Tacoma, Washington to the University of Colorado at Boulder, Colorado under the direction of Roger Barry
1982: NOAA designates the National Snow and Ice Data Center
1983: NSIDC receives grant from NASA for archiving Nimbus 7 passive microwave data
1990: NSIDC receives funding from NSF for Arctic System Science (ARCSS) Data Coordination Center (ADCC)
1996: Antarctic Data Coordination Center (ADCC) established with NSF support
1999: Antarctic Glaciological Data Center (AGDC) established with NSF support
2001: NSIDC celebrates its 25th Anniversary
2002: Frozen Ground Data Center established with International Arctic Research Center (IARC) support
2003: Full suite of Earth Observing System (EOS) cryospheric sensors (AMSR, GLAS, MODIS) in orbit
International science and data management programs facilitate the free exchange of data and accelerate research aimed at understanding the role of the cryosphere in the Earth system. NSIDC contributes to a number of international programs. Most of these programs, only a few of which are mentioned here, fall under the aegis of the International Council of Scientific Unions (ICSU).
NSIDC scientists participate in International Union of Geodesy and Geophysics (IUGG), International Association of Cryospheric Sciences (IACS), and in activities of the International Permafrost Association (IPA), the Global Digital Sea Ice Data Bank (GDSIDB), and the World Climate Research Programme (WCRP), including Climate and Cryosphere (CliC), Global Energy and Water Cycle Experiment (GEWEX), the Global Climate Observing System (GCOS), and the Global Earth Observation System of Systems (GEOSS). Former NSIDC Director, Roger G. Barry, was co-Vice Chair of the WCRP CliC Scientific Steering Group until 2005, and was a member of the GCOS/Global Terrestrial Observing System (GTOS) Terrestrial Observation Panel for Climate through 2007.
Researchers at NSIDC investigate the dynamics of Antarctic ice shelves, new techniques for the remote sensing of snow and freeze/thaw cycle of soils, the role of snow in hydrologic modeling, linkages between changes in sea ice extent and weather patterns, large-scale shifts in polar climate, river and lake ice, and the distribution and characteristics of seasonally and permanently frozen ground. In-house scientists pursue their work as part of the CIRES Cryospheric and Polar Process Division,
NSIDC also monitors Arctic and Antarctic sea ice in near real time, and regularly posts sea ice extent data and analysis on its Arctic Sea Ice News and Analysis page.
A research project of the NSIDC is the Exchange For Local Observations and Knowledge of the Arctic or ELOKA. It is a collaborative international effort that was launched during the 2007–2009 International Polar Year. ELOKA facilitates the collection, preservation, exchange, and use of local observations and knowledge of the Arctic. Data management and user support are provided by ELOKA while it fosters collaboration between resident Arctic experts and visiting researchers. By working together, Arctic residents and researchers have made significant contributions to our understanding of the Arctic and recent changes to it. A key challenge of local and traditional knowledge (LTK) research and community-based monitoring is having an effective and appropriate means of recording, storing, and managing data and information. There is also the issue of finding an effective means of making such data available to Arctic residents and researchers, as well as other interested groups such as teachers, students, and decision makers. Without a network and data management system to support LTK and community-based research, a number of problems have arisen. ELOKA aims to fill this gap.
In February 2025, data from the NSIDC showed total global sea ice extent to be at an all-time low.
US National Research Council (1983) Snow and Ice Research: An Assessment US National Academies Press pg 115
US National Research Council (1995) Study on the Long-term Retention of Selected Scientific and Technical Records of the Federal Government US National Academies Press pg 115
Minster, J./NRC (1998) Review of NASA's Distributed Active Archive Centers US National Academies Press ISBN 9780309063319 pp 147–163
Simpson, Robert in Oliver, John E. (ed) (2005) The Encyclopedia of World Climatology Springer ISBN 9781402032646 pg 232
Burden, Paul R. (2010) A Subject Guide to Quality Web Sites Scarecrow Press ISBN 9780810876958 pg 626
Barry, Roger and Gan, Thian Yew (2011) The Global Cryosphere: Past, Present and Future Cambridge University Press ISBN 9781139496698 pg 5
Icelights, a regular column by cryosphere experts and questions from the public
Serious Science, an interview with NSIDC lead scientist Ted Scambos from The Antarctic Sun
Carlos Rafael (born June 29, 1952) is a Portuguese-American former commercial fishing magnate based in New Bedford, Massachusetts. He was the owner of Carlos Seafood Inc. and operated one of the largest commercial fishing fleets in the United States. In 2017, Rafael pleaded guilty to 28 federal counts including falsification of records, Lacey Act violations, bulk cash smuggling, and tax evasion after a federal investigation found he had systematically mislabeled protected fish species to circumvent federal catch quotas over a span of decades. He is widely referred to in media coverage as the Codfather.
Rafael was born on the island of Corvo in the Azores, Portugal, and immigrated to the United States in 1968, settling in New Bedford. He worked as a fish cutter on the New Bedford docks before founding Carlos Seafood, Inc. in the early 1980s. Carlos Seafood grew to encompass a processing facility, seafood dealership, and a fleet of approximately 40 fishing vessels operating under dozens of federal permits, making it one of the largest operations of its kind in the country.
Before his 2016 arrest, Rafael had prior federal convictions for tax evasion (1987, six months served) and for making false statements on fishing landing slips (2000, probation). He was acquitted of price fixing charges in 1994.
New England's federal groundfish management system, implemented by NOAA in 2010, assigned fishing vessels species-specific annual catch limits and required accurate reporting of all landings. Rafael directed his bookkeeper to falsify trip and dealer reports submitted to NOAA, relabeling catch of quota-limited species such as Atlantic cod and flounder as haddock, which faced fewer restrictions. Federal prosecutors alleged that approximately 782,812 pounds of fish were misreported between 2012 and 2016. He also sold fish through off-the-books cash transactions and smuggled the proceeds to Portugal; Bristol County Sheriff's Deputy Antonio Freitas was convicted of smuggling $17,500 through airport security and depositing it in Rafael's Portuguese bank account.
In early 2016, IRS agents working alongside NOAA, the FBI, and other agencies approached Rafael posing as potential buyers of his business. During recorded meetings, Rafael described his operations in detail. He was arrested on February 26, 2016, and 13 vessels were seized. A 28-count indictment followed in May 2016 in a case prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Andrew Lelling and David G. Tobin. Freitas and Rafael's bookkeeper, Debra Messier, were also charged; charges against Messier were later dropped.
Rafael pleaded guilty to all 28 counts on March 30, 2017. U.S. District Judge William G. Young sentenced him on September 26, 2017, to 46 months in prison, a $200,000 fine, and $108,929 in restitution. In 2019, Rafael reached a civil settlement with NOAA requiring him to pay a $3 million penalty, sell his entire fleet and all federal permits, and accept a lifetime ban from U.S. federal fisheries.
Magnuson–Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Fisheries Office of Law Enforcement
Marine policy of the Obama administration
The 2020 Formula 4 United States Championship season was the fifth season of the Formula 4 United States Championship, a motor racing series regulated according to FIA Formula 4 regulations and sanctioned by SCCA Pro Racing, the professional racing division of the Sports Car Club of America.
The original series schedule was announced on 19 December 2019. After multiple postponements due to the 2019-20 coronavirus pandemic, on 29 May 2020 a new schedule was revealed that added new rounds at Mid-Ohio Sports Car Course and Homestead-Miami Speedway, but no longer included a round at Road Atlanta. The final round at Circuit of the Americas, which was supposed to be held in support of the 2020 United States Grand Prix until that event canceled, was held as a triple-header.
Ecosystem valuation is an economic process which assigns a value (either monetary, biophysical, or other) to an ecosystem and/or its ecosystem services. By quantifying, for example, the human welfare benefits of a forest to reduce flooding and erosion while sequestering carbon, providing habitat for endangered species, and absorbing harmful chemicals, such monetization ideally provides a tool for policy-makers and conservationists to evaluate management impacts and compare a cost-benefit analysis of potential policies. However, such valuations are estimates and involve the inherent quantitative uncertainty and philosophical debate of evaluating a range non-market costs and benefits.
Cost-benefit analyses and the generation of market value have existed within the economic literature for centuries. However, in 1997, Robert Costanza was the first to estimate the worldwide worth of ecosystem services—bringing new attention to the field of ecosystem valuation. He and his colleagues calculated that such services were worth $33 trillion annually ($44 trillion present dollars).
Despite Costanza's fanfare, the World Bank, three decades later, that "the benefits provided by natural ecosystems are both widely recognized and poorly understood.”
Citing the importance of such knowledge to informed policy-making, in 2007, Environmental Ministers from the G8 + 5 nations agreed to both publicly call for and begin to undertake the calculation of global ecosystem benefits, conservation costs, and the opportunity costs of developing such ecosystems. The resulting watershed initiative and ongoing project is The Economics of Ecosystems and Biodiversity (TEEB).
In the United States, the President's Council on Science and Technology suggested in 2011 that the “U.S. government should institute and fund a Quadrennial Ecosystems Services Trends (QuEST) Assessment” that studying trends in ecosystem performance, quality, and value.
Ecosystem valuation attempts to capture the range of benefits and costs contained within a complicated natural web with a range of economic methodologies.
Ecological systems provide four general categories of services: provisioning (e.g. fish to eat, timber to sell), regulatory, supporting, and cultural (e.g. ecosystems supporting indigenous gathering techniques, or supplies for traditional clothing). See Figure 1. for a mangrove-specific example of this complex subject.
These four types of services can then provide two basic categories of value: the use and non-use categories. Environmental economists have further separated categorizes for which individuals are willing to pay:
The simplest form of ecosystem valuation for orthodox environmental economists, this translates the direct ecological yield as it would be on international trade markets: e.g. the value of water, timber, fish, or other commodities if immediately developed and sold at market price.Thus, an exchange value or 'price' is associated with the objects of value, regarded as natural capital, associated with ecosystems and this may be based on the ability of a system to produce yields each year that are exchangeable in operating markets and have existing exchange prices.
Indirect use value attributed to indirect utilization of ecosystem services, through the positive externalities that ecosystems provide.
The World Bank explains that these values are "derived from ecosystem services that provide benefits outside the ecosystem itself. Examples include natural water filtration which often benefits people far downstream, the storm protection function of mangrove forests which benefits coastal properties and infrastructure, and carbon sequestration which benefits the entire global community by abating climate change."
Option value attributed to preserving the option to utilize ecosystem services in the future.
Existence value attributed to the pure existence of an ecosystem.
Altruistic value based on the welfare the ecosystem may give other people.
Bequest value based on the welfare the ecosystem may give future generations.
Given these types of potential ecological values, economists utilize a variety of methods to calculate those market values and measure non-market values. Standard environmental economic methods are used to place a monetary value on ecosystem services where there are no market prices. These include "stated preference" methods and "revealed preference" methods. Stated preference methods, such as the contingent valuation method ask people for their willingness to pay for a certain ecosystem (service). Revealed preference methods, such as hedonic pricing and the travel cost method, use a relation with a market good or service to estimate the willingness-to-pay for the service. Applying such preference based approaches has been criticized as a means of deriving the value of ecosystems and biodiversity and for avoiding deliberation, justification and judgment in making choices. The monetary value society attaches to ecosystem services depends on the income distribution. It is argued that ecosystem valuations must steadily increase over time, in line with rising global income as well as increasing scarcity of functioning ecosystems.
While the literature is still emerging, many important studies have resulting in striking valuations.
One academic paper by de Groot et al., which synthesized more than 300 scholarly works collectively evaluating the 10 main biomes, "shows that the total value of ecosystem services is considerable and ranges between 490 int$/year for the total bundle of ecosystem services that can potentially be provided by an ‘average’ hectare of open oceans to almost 350,000 int$/year for the potential services of an ‘average’ hectare of coral reefs." This potential benefit can take many forms depending on the degree of exploitation and such exploitation's sustainability, but can result, for example, in large ecotourist revenues for local communities, protection from storm destruction, or profit for an international lumber company.
Furthermore, de Groot et al. find that most of their paper's calculated value is "outside the market and best considered as non-tradable public benefits. The continued over-exploitation of ecosystems thus comes at the expense of the livelihood of the poor and future generations."
The Economics of Ecosystems and Biodiversity (TEEB), in one of its first large, cumulative reports, also found that ecosystem services start at roughly $100/hectare/year for open ocean, and top off to more than $1,000,000/hectare/year for the most lucrative coral reefs.
Beyond biome "price tags," these environmental valuations can explore quite complex policy questions. For example, the Copenhagen Consensus think tank calculated that stemming the loss of coral reefs by 50 percent by 2030 would return more than $24 for every dollar spent. The Consensus' founder, Bjorn Lomborg, explains that "coral reefs, which both act as fishery hatcheries and fishing resources while storing abundant numbers of species. At the same time, coral reefs possess an amazing beauty, which both shows up in large tourism revenues but also in most individuals saying they are willing to pay a certain amount to make sure they continue to exist for our grand children. … [Programs to preserve 50% more coral reef by 2030] cost about $3 billion per year but the total benefits likely run to at least $72, or about $24 dollars back for every dollar invested."
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) manages the Integrated Valuation Environmental Services and Tradeoffs (InVEST) Natural Capital Project. This open-source tool—although geared towards policy-makers, advocates, and scientists—allows anyone to interact with a map quantifying "trade-offs between alternative management choices" and identifying "areas where investment in natural capital can enhance human development and conservation.”
As another example, the Basque Centre for Climate Change (BC3) hosts the Artificial Intelligence for Environment & Sustainability (ARIES) Project. This open-source software was designed to integrate scientific models for environmental sustainability assessment and policy-making, with an initial focus on ecosystem services
After (and, sometimes, before) evaluating the ecosystem costs and benefits, some programs have attempted to internalize those values with specific programs providing payments for environmental services. Costa Rica paid about $42/hectare for landowners to preserve forests; in 2010 Norway began paying Indonesia a total of $1 billion to mitigate deforestation; China responded to 1998 floods with payments targeting deforestation and soil erosion; and many other programs large and small.
From an academic perspective, although scholarly research is quite rapidly adding to this field of understanding, many knowledge gaps still remain. For example, there is an inherent uncertainty in attempting to quantify non-market goods. As pointed to by de Groot et al., many environmental goods (such as clean air and biodiversity) are simply not traded in established markets. In addition, many environmental goods may be non-rival, non-excludable, and even inseparable goods with multiple value options further complicating any valuation.
From an ethical and philosophical perspective, too, ecosystem valuation is far from uncontroversial. Arguments about the non-market valuation of ecosystem can be found by referring to environmental ethics and deep ecology.
Since animals do not put explicit prices on ecosystems they use, but do behave as if they are valuable, e.g. by selecting one territory vs. another, defending their territories, etc., it is mostly a matter of definition whether ecology should include valuation as an issue. It may be anthropocentric to do so, since "valuation" more clearly refers to a human perception rather than being an "objective" attribute of the system perceived. Ecology itself is also human perception, and such related concepts as a food chain are constructed by humans to help them understand ecosystems. In many cases by those who hold that markets and pricing exist independently of any individual human observers and "users", and especially those who deem markets to be "out of control", ecosystem valuation is considered a (marginal, ignored) part of economics. Others argue that natural capital is an economic concept that is at least as viable as financial capital, which itself is determined on subjective valuation. Some even suggest that valuation of ecosystem services is more cogent than financial valuation, as the ecosystem would continue after the collapse of the economy, while the inverse is not valid.
In addition, many questions about where ecosystem benefits go, and who should pay for those benefits, is an ongoing political debate. In one Washington city, residents now pay a water bill in order for the town to buy and restore land adjacent to the municipal water source; and international examples of evaluating and paying for services is no less a field of ongoing development.
Daily, Gretchen (1997). Nature's services : societal dependence on natural ecosystems. Washington, DC: Island Press. ISBN 978-1-55963-476-2. OCLC 228040018.
Hanley, Nick (1993). Cost-benefit analysis and the environment. Aldershot, Hants, England Brookfield, Vt: E. Elgar. ISBN 978-1-85278-947-3.
Pearce, David W. and R. Kerry Turner, 1990. Economics of natural resources and the environment. BPCC Wheatsons Ltd., Exeter, UK. 378 pp.
Futehally, Ilmas. Strategic Foresight Group, India. [1]
Assessment Report on Diverse Values and Valuation of Nature by the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES), 2022.
Environmental Valuation Reference Inventory
Ecosystem Valuation Toolkit Archived 2013-03-09 at the Wayback Machine
Reports on environmental valuation in Tropical countries
GecoServ- Gulf of Mexico Ecosystem Services Valuation Database
Lake Eiði (Faroese: Eiðisvatn) is a lake on the island of Eysturoy in the Faroe Islands.
Lake Eiði is located between the villages of Eiði and Ljósá. It is the fifth-largest natural lake in the Faroe Islands, with a natural size of 47 hectares (120 acres) that has been increased to 1.14 square kilometers (0.44 sq mi). The size of the lake was increased by walls 22 and 13 m high, constructed by the SEV company in connection with the Eiði power plant, which uses the lake as a reservoir. Electricity production was started in 1987. Two tunnels redirect water from adjacent valleys to Eiði.
Овцы заселили Фарерские острова раньше викингов
James Burnip (born 20 February 2001) is an Australian professional football punter for the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian Football League (CFL). He played college football for the Alabama Crimson Tide.
Burnip grew up playing Australian rules football and attended Victoria University. He learned to punt by training with ProKick Australia and initially committed to play for the Ole Miss Rebels. However, Burnip later flipped his commitment to play for the Alabama Crimson Tide.
Burnip made his collegiate debut in the 2021 season opener versus Miami. As a freshman in 2021 he punted 48 times with average of 39.1, where 23 resulted in fair catches and 15 landed inside the 20 yard line. In 2022, Burnip punted 44 times with an average of 42.3 yards per punt, with seven landing inside the 20 and a long of 58 yards. In week 2 of the 2023 season, he was named the Ray Guy Punter of the Week in a matchup versus Texas. In the 2024 Rose Bowl, Burnip had seven punts for 352 yards with a 50.3 average and caused two punts to be muffed in a loss to Michigan. In 2023, he punted 59 times with an average of 47.6 yards, earning second-team all-SEC honors.
Burnip accepted an invite to play in the 2025 Senior Bowl.
After going undrafted in the 2025 NFL draft, Burnip signed with the New Orleans Saints as an undrafted free agent. He was waived by the Saints on August 25.
Burnip was drafted by the Ottawa Redblacks of the Canadian Football League in the second round (14th overall) of the 2025 CFL global draft. On 30 January 2026, it was announced that he had signed with the Redblacks. He spent the first five games of the 2026 season on the practice roster.
On 12 July 2026, it was announced that Burnip had been traded to the Toronto Argonauts. Following an injury to the incumbent, John Hagerty, Burnip made his professional debut on 18 July 2026, against the Hamilton Tiger-Cats where he had four punts for an average of 53.5 yards.
Badara Tittha Vihara (also Badaratittha, Padaratittha) is the name of a historic Theravada Buddhist vihara in what is now the modern Tamil Nadu state of India.
Badaratittha is known to us from the Gandhavamsa (or Cullagandhavamsa), a 17th-century Pali work by Nandapañña that recounts post-canonical Pali books written in Burma and Ceylon.
The Gandhavamsa states that Badara Tittha Vihara was the dwelling place of Ācariya Dhammapāla, an early Theravadin commentator from Kanchipuram.
Taungoo Educational College is located at Taungoo, Bago Division, Myanmar. Formerly it was the Convent High School under the Taungoo, Roman Catholic Diocese. After nationalization, it became Teacher's Training College. In 2000, the named has been changed to Taungoo Educational College and the government upgraded the level. Primarily a teacher training college, the college offers bachelor's and master's in education to the country's prospective primary, secondary and tertiary school teachers.
Postgraduate Preservice Primary Teacher Training (PPTT)
Along with the Yangon Institute of Education, the Taungoo Educational College is affiliated with 21 educational colleges located throughout the country.
^ "Education in Myanmar". Yangon City Development Committee. https://web.archive.org/web/20081120085050/http://www.yangoncity.com.mm/education/index.asp. Retrieved 2008-12-31.
Everything Wrong Is Imaginary is a 2006 album by Lilys, released on the Manifesto label.
The album was written during a traumatic period in Lilys frontman Kurt Heasley's life; His partner disappeared after a psychotic episode and returned to her family leaving Heasley to look after his three children. Heasley therefore worked on the album mainly at home in his spare time. The recordings were then sent to producer Michael Musmanno, who finished the tracks with session musicians.
Jason MacNeil of PopMatters described the album as (along with previous album Precollection), "the closest thing to Britrock from a Yankee band I heard in a long time", going on to say "There are too many things right about this album to make you believe it's imaginary". Patrick Rapa of the Philadelphia City Paper described it as "one of Heasley's finest yet—10 occasionally noisy, often catchy rock songs". Marc Hogan of Pitchfork Media opined that "much of the record's beauty lies [in] its dizzying production", but wrote that it "never quite feels like the career-culminating record it should be." Mark Edwards of the Sunday Times identified the album's diversity as one of its strengths. Eugene P. Sorricraft from the Highbold Press declared it, "a wonderful expulsion of everything that is otherwise lacking in this sad world".
"Knocked on the Fortune Teller's Door" (Heasley) 4:29
"The Night Sun Over San Juan" (Heasley) 3:45
"Still in All the Glitter" (Heasley) 3:51
"Everything Wrong Is Imaginary" (Heasley) 4:34
Michael Musmanno – bass, keyboards, Oberheim programming, electric guitar
Don Piper – drums, percussion, electric and acoustic guitars, lap steel, vocals
Saints Tygrius and Eutropius (died 405) were two early Roman martyrs who supported Saint John Chrysostom at the time of his exile.
Eutropius was tortured and died, while Tygrius was exiled, but both are considered martyrs.
Tygrius and Eutropius were supporters of the exiled Saint John Chrysostom, and were arrested on false charges of trying to burn down the cathedral in Constantinople.
Eutropius was tortured and died of his injuries in 405, while Tygrius was exiled to Asia Minor.
Tygrius, priest, and Eutropius, lector, who suffered in the time of the emperor Arcadius (r. 383–408), are honoured on 12 January.
TYGRIUS, a priest, who was scourged, tormented with the disjointing of his bones, stripped of all his goods, and sent into banishment; and EUTROPIUS, lector, and precentor of the church of Constantinople, who died in prison of his torments, having been scourged, his cheeks torn with iron hooks, and his sides burnt with torches; are honoured in the Roman Martyrology with the title of martyrs, on the 12th of January.
Mgr. Doney, in the Grande vie des saints (1872) wrote,
The chance of birth seemed to have never separated these two holy characters, united by the defense of the same interests, and the glory of a common martyrdom. Tygrius was born among the barbarians who conquered the Roman Empire. Having been taken prisoner in his youth, he was sold as a slave to a rich and powerful man from Constantinople who gave him freedom, as a reward for his zeal in serving him. His piety and virtues then brought him into the ecclesiastical state, and elevated him to the priesthood. Tygrius was so gentle and so fervent in piety, that in a short time he attracted the esteem and affection of the clergy and people of Constantinople.
St. John Chrysostom also knew how to appreciate his rare virtue, gave him his confidence, and lived with him in a very close friendship. This honorable friendship exposed Tygrius to the persecutions of the enemies of the holy Patriarch, and when Theophilus of Alexandria convened, in a suburb of Chalcedon, the famous Synod of the Oak, which condemned in such an unjust and odious manner this eloquent doctor of the Church, he himself was summoned to appear before these passionate and prevaricating judges, and condemned as one of the most devoted supporters of John Chrysostom.
Eutrope, a lector (reader) of the church of Constantinople, belonged to one of the patrician families of that city. He was a young man of very delicate complexion, who had received a distinguished education, and who had already been distinguished by the sanctity of his life when the opportunity presented itself for him to deploy a firmness. and an invincible courage to the most cruel supplications.
At the time when St. Chrysostom was expelled for the second time from Constantinople, a fire broke out, it is not known by what accident, in the patriarchal church of Hagia Sophia, and the hall where the senate met. The governor of the city, Optat, who was still a pagan, was charmed to find, in this fortuitous event, a pretext for raging against these men who by their virtues and lights attracted new proselytes to the religion of Jesus Christ every day, and aroused in them, on this occasion, violent persecutions which the weakness of the children of the great and pious Theodosius were incapable of repressing.
The lector Eutrope and the priest Tygrius, both guilty of too ardent a zeal for religion and too much devotion to the banished patriarch, were the first to be arrested. Eutrope was first tortured to force him to reveal the perpetrators of the fire. But this cruelty only served to explode, in the person of this frail young man, the power of the One who knows how to make the weakest instruments confound the strongest.
Optat first had him beaten with rods, then his face and all his limbs were torn with hard nails; finally his whole body became nothing but a wound, over which they ran fiery torches to make the pain more alive and more sensitive. Eutrope suffered these atrocious treatments with admirable firmness; nothing could dampen his courage, and he continued to cry out loudly, in the midst of the torments, in favor of justice and truth unworthily violated in the cause of the holy Bishop. His enemies, confused by a heroism they were far from expecting, had him transported to a prison, where he died from his wounds. Pallade claims, however, that he died on the very scene of his torture, in the eyes of all the people trembling with indignation. However that may be, shortly after the tragic death of Eutrope, the Lord testified by several miracles to the holiness of this glorious Martyr.
Optat then summoned the priest Tygrius; he was first stripped of his clothes and cruelly beaten with rods. This torture not being able to wrest from him the name of the authors of the fire which he did not know. The governor made him lie down on a rack, and his hands and feet were pulled so violently that his body was dislocated. However, he survived this dreadful torment; but having been later condemned to banishment for not having wanted to communicate with Arsace, intruding patriarch of Constantinople, he was transported to Mesopotamia. We do not know the last details of his life, or the nature and precise time of his death; but the Church does not stop honoring him as a martyr. She celebrates his feast on January 12, with that of Saint Eutrope.
Edwin Stevens Lines (November 23, 1845 – October 25, 1927) was a bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Newark, New Jersey.
Lines was born in Naugatuck, Connecticut, on November 23, 1845, the son of Henry Willis Lines and Harriet Bunnell. He studied at Yale Divinity School between 1872 and 1873 and later graduated from Berkeley Divinity School in 1874.
He was ordained deacon on May 24, 1874, in Middletown, Connecticut, and became rector of Christ Church in West Haven, Connecticut. He was ordained priest in the same church on December 21, 1874, and remained rector till 1879 when he became rector of St Paul's Church in New Haven, Connecticut.
Lines was elected on the fifth ballot as Bishop of Newark on June 17, 1903, and was consecrated on November 18, 1903, by Presiding Bishop Daniel S. Tuttle. He died in office on October 25, 1927, due to heart failure.
Lines married in Mary Louise Morehouse on May 4, 1880, and together had four children.
Michelle Renee Clunie (born November 7, 1969) is an American actress and former ballet dancer. A native of Portland, Oregon, Clunie studied ballet from an early age, earning a scholarship at the Academy of Professional Ballet. In 1992, she starred in a Los Angeles–based production of A Comedy of Eros, for which she won a Drama-Logue Award for Best Actress, before making her film debut in the slasher film Jason Goes to Hell: The Final Friday (1993).
Clunie gained international attention for her portrayal of Melanie Marcus on Showtime's series Queer as Folk (2000–2005). She later starred as Ellen Beals on Make It or Break It (2010–2011) and as Mrs. Finch on MTV’s Teen Wolf (2015–2017).
Clunie was born November 7, 1969, in Portland, Oregon. As a child, she studied ballet, tap, jazz, and violin. Clunie attended Portland's David Douglas High School, graduating in 1987.
She was awarded a scholarship to The Academy of Professional Ballet where she studied and apprenticed throughout her teenage years. At 19 years old she sold her violin for $200 and moved to Los Angeles, California to pursue an acting career.
In 1992, Clunie made her Los Angeles stage debut in Dean Orion's A Comedy of Eros performed at the Skylight Theatre, which earned her a Drama-Logue Award for Best Actress.
Additional stage highlights include her portrayal of Abby in Neil LaBute's West Coast premiere of The Mercy Seat at the Ford Theatre, for which she won the Backstage Readers Best Performance Award, and the world premiere and Off-Broadway production of US, written and performed by Clunie at New York City's Lion Theatre at Theatre Row.
In 1995, she was cast in the Academy Award-winning The Usual Suspects and shortly thereafter played a supporting role in Lost & Found. She became a series regular on The Jeff Foxworthy Show and guest starred on ER, The Tony Danza Show, House M.D., Without a Trace, NCIS, among several others.
She played Melanie Marcus in the US adaptation of Queer as Folk and the biology teacher, Mrs. Finch, on MTV’s Teen Wolf.
In October 2014 it was announced Clunie was expecting a child with director Bryan Singer, and in January 2015 she gave birth to their son.
The Buchli drive is a transmission system used in electric locomotives. It was named after its inventor, Swiss engineer Jakob Buchli. The drive is a fully spring-loaded drive, in which each floating axle has an individual motor, that is placed in the spring mounted locomotive frame. The weight of the driving motors is completely disconnected from the driving wheels, which are exposed to movement of the rails.
First used in electric locomotives from the 1920s, the Buchli drive made possible the construction of faster and more powerful locomotives that required larger and heavier traction motors. The system minimises the impact on rail tracks due to the reduction in the overall unsprung weight. Although the drive was very successful though the 1930s, it is little used in modern locomotives, having been replaced with smaller, simpler drives that exhibit less imbalance and allow higher speeds.
In a Buchli drive a driven gear wheel is securely fixed to the locomotive frame. Inside this gear wheel are two levers, coupled to gear segments that mesh with one another. The other end of the levers is coupled via universal joints to tension bars, which are then coupled via more universal joints to the driving rail wheel.
Vertical movement of the driving wheel results in the gear segments moving due to the internal mechanism, and the driving wheel can move in a horizontal or vertical direction with respect to the gear wheel, while still transferring the momentum of the gear wheel.
A disadvantage of the drive was the large number of moving parts, which demanded frequent lubrication and careful maintenance. As a result the Buchli drive system was mainly used on express train locomotives, as there were no other drive systems that gave the same performance at high speeds. However, at higher speeds the drive components became unbalanced, causing issues at speeds over 140 km per hour.
The Buchli drive was exported to other rail companies as one sided separate traction motor drive, usually with an inside frame.
The motor framework with the wheelset bearing is located between the wheel disks of the driving wheels. The gear wheel, which is housed in an auxiliary frame outside the driving wheels and is surrounded by a protective casing, is on one side of the driving wheels. Each gear wheel is driven by an individual traction motor, which is located above the gear wheel in the locomotive body.
With this implementation, a strongly one-sided weight distribution occurs in the underframe through the remote gear wheels. In order to maintain stability of the locomotive on the longitudinal axis, heavy equipment inside the locomotive body must be arranged on the opposite side of the drive equipment.
Locomotives with a Buchli drive also typically have an asymmetrical appearance: on one side, the bearings of the drive wheels are visible, on the other side, they are almost completely covered by the wheel cover box of the gear wheels.
In addition to the standard implementation, there were also the following variations:
The engine framework with the driving wheel housing is outside the wheel disks of the driving wheels. The driving wheel is enclosed by a quill camped in the locomotive cabinet, on which the gear wheel sits. Examples included the Pennsylvania Railroad O1b, and the Deutsche Reichsbahn ET11.01.
The motor is arranged between the floating axles. A common pinion or a pinion on both motor end drives the gear wheels of the neighbouring axes. U.S. patent 1,683,674 described this design, but vehicles implementing it are not known.
The driving wheel is coupled with two gear wheels, and the motor has a pinion on both sides. The taps in the wheel disk are warped about 90 degrees against each other so that the drive imbalance can be reduced. This version of the driver was used for greater driving power.
However with this arrangement, there is the danger of mechanical stress in the drive components. Examples included the French express train locomotives: SNCF 2D2 5400, SNCF 2D2 5500, SNCF 2D2 9100.
Two driving motors work on one common gear wheel, which is interconnected with a driving wheel. Examples include the Pennsylvania Railroad O1b.
Nearly 240 locomotives of the SBB with Buchli drive were in use for over sixty years. The SBB Ae 3/6I class locomotives were in operation from 1921 to 1994. French tracks had 100 express train locomotives using the Buchli drive, in service for fifty years.
SBB Be 2/5 (Prototype locomotive) (Deutsch)
SBB Ae 4/8 (Prototype locomotive) (Deutsch)
ET 11.01 double railcars Bo'2'+2'Bo'. Constructed in 1938, implementation without frame. The vehicle was rebuilt in the 1960s and the Buchli drive system was removed
SNCF Class 2D2 5400 (mutual drive) (Français)
SNCF Class 2D2 5500 (mutual drive) (Français)
SNCF Class 2D2 9100 (mutual drive) (Français)
3000 - four 1'Do1' locomotives for the 1.5 kV electrification system, manufactured by SLM and BBC in 1924 and 1926, scrapped 1976 or thereabouts. This locomotive was the first type to get the Java bogie. image
7000 - two (1A)Bo(A1), constructed in 1926, later renumbered as the ED54 class (ja)
EA/1 and EA/2 (later on WCP-1 and WCP-2) - 2′BoA2′- 22+1 units built in 1928-30 by SLM, Vulcan Foundry and MetroVick.
EB/1 and EC/1 (later on WCP-3 and WCP-4) - 2′Co2′ - 1+1 units built in 1928 and 1938. [1]
RENFE series 272, ordered by predecessor company NORTE, 12 constructed in 1928 as the Stk 2′Co′Co′2′ for a 1.5 kV supply voltage.
E 465.0 - 2 Stk 1′Do1′ locomotive for 1.5 kV supply voltage. Built in 1927 and scrapped in 1962
Pennsylvania Railroad O1b - 2 Stk 2′Bo2′ locomotives. Built with inside frame and two driving motors per axle.
1′Do1′ locomotive. 5 units 0301 built in 1931 and 0302-0305 built in 1934. All built by Tecnomasio Italiano Brown Boveri.
Gustav Nagel: Hierzulande ein Exot. Der Buchli-Antrieb. In: LOK MAGAZIN. Nr. 253/Jahrgang 41/2002. GeraNova Zeitschriftenverlag GmbH München, ISSN 0458-1822, S. 64-65.
Werner Nef: Buchli-Oldtimer der Schweiz, 2003, ISBN 3-7654-7125-9
Karl Sachs: Elektrische Treibfahrzeuge, 1953, Band I, S. 298-301
The Limca Book of Records is an annual reference book published in India documenting world records held by Indians. The records are further categorised into education, literature, agriculture, medical science, business, sports, nature, adventure, radio and cinema.
The Limca Book of Records is published in English and is a promotional tool of Limca, a soft drink brand, owned by the Coca Cola Company, it is a localised equivalent of the Guinness World Records.
The Limca Book of Records was first published in 1990, when the Limca soft drink brand was owned by Parle Bisleri. It was started originally by Ramesh Chauhan, who sold it to The Coca-Cola Company in 1993. The book continued to be published by Coca-Cola. The Limca Book of Records is now published with the patronage of Coca-Cola India which manufactures Limca.
Its year 2006 edition was launched in New Delhi by Atul Singh, CEO of Coca-Cola India.
On 25 September 2007, a special edition was released by Coca-Cola to commemorate 60 years of India's independence.
The 20th edition of this book was released by Amitabh Bachchan in March 2009. Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) chief G. Madhavan Nair also participated in this event.
The 21st text edition of the book was launched on 29 March 2011. As the sports achievers special edition, it pays special tribute to the Indian athletes in the 2010 Commonwealth Games and Asian Games.
The 25th edition marking the Silver Jubilee of the book's publication was launched on International Women’s Day in 2014.
The 26th edition of Limca Book of Records was launched at the Jaipur Literature Festival in January 2015.
The 27th edition of Limca Book of Records is The Specially Abled Edition in 2016.
Since 1992, Limca Book of Records has featured 'People of the Year'. A panel of judges (including the editorial team) selects people who have consistently contributed to 'Indian excellence'.
Coca-colaindia.com published an online Limca book of records archive featuring several landmark records set in India.
In 1996, the Indian national television channel Doordarshan broadcast 19 episodes of Limca Book Of Records Ki Anokhi Duniya which were hosted by Siddharth Kak and featured events from the book.
In 2008, Star TV News Channel aired Limca Book of Records Wah India Show on Saturdays and Sundays from April to December.
Siddarth Kak made the film Triumph of the Spirit about the Limca Book of Records. The film was broadcast by the National Geographic group Fox History and Entertainment channel in 2010.
A baseline, as defined by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, is the line along the coast from which the outer limits of a state's territorial sea and certain other maritime zones of jurisdiction are measured, such as a state's exclusive economic zone.
The following methods are used to measure a baseline under the Law of the Sea Convention. In all cases, the baseline is drawn according to the state's own charts.
In most cases, the baseline follows the low-water line of the coastal state. There are a variety of special rules and exceptions for a range of geological features, including bays, ports, rocks, artificial structures and reefs.
The UN Convention allows for straight baselines to be drawn where deeply indented coastline and fringes of islands are closely connected to the coastline. Straight baselines must be drawn between the features and the coastline, in the general direction of the coast, and cannot be drawn across low-tide elevations. The Convention also prohibits straight baselines that would cut off another state's access to territorial sea or Exclusive Economic Zone. Since their introduction, countries including Canada and China have used straight baselines to extend their maritime borders.
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) – Part II
Øksnes is a municipality in Nordland county, Norway. It is located on the northwestern part of the large island of Langøya, which is a part of the traditional region of Vesterålen. The administrative centre of the municipality is the village of Myre. Other villages in Øksnes include Alsvåg, Barkestad, Breidstrand, Nyksund, Strengelvåg, and Stø.
The 320-square-kilometre (120 sq mi) municipality is the 257th largest by area out of the 357 municipalities in Norway. Øksnes Municipality is the 190th most populous municipality in Norway with a population of 4,569. The municipality's population density is 14.3 inhabitants per square kilometre (37/sq mi) and its population has increased by 0.2% over the previous 10-year period.
The municipality of Øksnes was established on 1 January 1838 (see formannskapsdistrikt law). On 1 January 1866, a small area of southern Øksnes (population: 40) was transferred to the neighboring Bø Municipality. On 1 July 1919, the northeastern part of Øksnes along the Gavlfjorden (population: 1,085) was separated to form the new Langenes Municipality. This left Øksnes with 2,296 residents.
During the 1960s, there were many municipal mergers across Norway due to the work of the Schei Committee. On 1 January 1964, the Krakberget area and the part of Øksnes on the peninsula north of Krakberget (population: 271) was transferred to the neighboring Bø Municipality. On the same date Langenes Municipality was merged with Øksnes. Prior to the merger, Øksnes had 3,112 residents and Langenes had 2,037 residents.
The municipality (originally the parish) is named after the old Øksnes farm (Old Norse: Yxnes) since the first Øksnes Church was built there. The first element is probably an old name of Skogsøya island (Old Norse: Yxn). The old name of the island was identical with the word yxn which means "oxen". The mountains of the island have maybe been compared with a group of oxen. The last element is nes which means "headland".
The coat of arms was granted on 22 August 1986. The official blazon is "Or two hooks addorsed sable" (Norwegian: I gull to adosserte svarte angler). This means the arms have a field (background) that has a tincture of Or which means it is commonly colored yellow, but if it is made out of metal, then gold is used. The charge is two black fishing hooks. The design was chosen to symbolize a municipality which is dependent on fishing and sailing. The hooks were based on the bone hooks that were used for fishing in this area prior to 17th century. The arms were designed by Arvid Sveen.
The Church of Norway has one parish (sokn) within Øksnes Municipality. It is part of the Vesterålen prosti (deanery) in the Diocese of Sør-Hålogaland.
Øksnes municipality encompasses the northwestern part of the island of Langøya in the Vesterålen archipelago. It also includes many small islands around there including the islands of Anden, Dyrøya, Nærøya, Skogsøya, and Tindsøya. The Gavlfjorden flows along the northeastern part of the boundary with Andøy Municipality on the other side. The southeastern part of Øksnes borders Sortland Municipality and the southwestern part borders Bø Municipality (both municipalities are also located on Langøya island). The rest of the municipality borders the Norwegian Sea.
The municipality is quite rugged with the exception of the area east of Myre which is very flat and marshy. The large lake Alsvågvatnet lies near this flat area, just east of the village of Alsvåg. This flat area lies just to the north of the 762.46-metre (2,501.5 ft) tall mountain Snøkolla, which is the highest point in the municipality. The Anda Lighthouse is located on the tiny island of Anden.
An area of about 6,000 hectares (15,000 acres) at the north-eastern end of the island, comprising coastal lagoons, fens, transition mires, springs and mudflats, including the Grunnfjorden nature reserve and Grunnfjorden Ramsar site as well as other wetlands, has been designated an Important Bird Area (IBA) by BirdLife International (BLI) because it supports populations of pink-footed and barnacle geese on passage migration.
Øksnes Municipality is responsible for primary education (through 10th grade), outpatient health services, senior citizen services, welfare and other social services, zoning, economic development, and municipal roads and utilities. The municipality is governed by a municipal council of directly elected representatives. The mayor is indirectly elected by a vote of the municipal council. The municipality is under the jurisdiction of the Midtre Hålogaland District Court and the Hålogaland Court of Appeal.
The municipal council (Kommunestyre) of Øksnes Municipality is made up of 21 representatives that are elected to four year terms. The tables below show the current and historical composition of the council by political party.
The mayor (Norwegian: ordfører) of Øksnes Municipality is the political leader of the municipality and the chairperson of the municipal council. Here is a list of people who have held this position:
Oskar J. W. Hansen (1892 in Langenes – 1971), a naturalized American sculptor who worked at the Hoover Dam
Lydolf Lind Meløy (1908 in Meløya – 1999), an educator, trade unionist, and politician
Finn Knutsen (born 1932 in Langenes), a Norwegian politician and mayor of Øksnes
Ove Kristian Sundberg (1932 in Øksnes – 2019), a church musician, musicologist, and historian of ideas
Maria Solheim (born 1982 in Alsvåg), a singer-songwriter
Municipal fact sheet from Statistics Norway (in Norwegian)
Andrés Felipe Zapata Gaviria (born December 21, 1978), who performs under the name Wolfine, is a Colombian singer and composer. He has recorded with international artists such as Ñengo Flow, Julio Voltio, Kafu Banton, Nicky Jam, King Chesta, Thirstin Howl, among others.
After several years away from music, Wolfine returned in 2017 with "Bella", a hit single that became a viral success globally, gaining over 300 million streams on Spotify and 790 million views on YouTube, making it his most commercially successful song throughout his career. The song has also peaked on #12 on Billboard Latin Pop Airplay.
He was born in Medellín on December 21, 1978. He is the oldest of three brothers who only saw each other once a year. "We were a very plague. When they punished us, they locked us in the house, and we went out through the roof." He grew up in the most dangerous time in Medellín. Now, being an adult, he prefers not to go there.
His father was a pharmaceutical chemist who had a drugstore in the Castilla district. His mom was one of the first to have a hot dog cart in Medellín. Wolfine went out with her and her two brothers, they used to take electricity out of the house with a long cable and they set about selling dogs the entire day.
The first record he produced was a CD with two singles that gave him "Scarface: The Untouchable" and "Smile". Initially, He had no place to play the CD, until He bought a tape recorder that paid him in installments to a neighbor.
The CD had the song and the track, and the young man began to sing without knowing what it meant. Until today he learns that untouchable means untouchable. Funkat was struck by the music of the trolley and began recording Wolfine more music on cassettes and telling stories of the protagonists of rap. Then he started recording songs with his mother's recorder and the Scarface CD track, he heard the melody and he wrote songs in Spanish.
In 1998 Wolfine had his beginnings in Medellín in groups such as (Komplot, RH Klandestino and Kafeina), participating in the most important festivals in Colombia, achieving great public acceptance for his great energy on stage; The Colombian also becomes one of the first urban artists to achieve the rotation of two of his videos on Latin MTV.
Wolfine ventures into acting in 2008, forming part of the film "Hoy Martes" as co-star with the role of "eyebrows" this was shot in Medellín, with the participation of well-known actors like Álvaro Rodríguez, who made "El Mocho" from "El Cartel de los Toads". Later he released his first reggaetón song called "Si Te Toco", becoming the number one song in Medellín for several months, conquering the urban youth audience.
Killer's Kiss is a 1955 American independent film noir directed, photographed, edited, and produced by Stanley Kubrick and written by Kubrick and Howard Sackler. It is the second feature film directed by Kubrick, following his 1953 debut feature, Fear and Desire. The film stars Jamie Smith, Irene Kane, and Frank Silvera.
The film is about Davey Gordon (Jamie Smith), a 29-year-old middleweight New York boxer at the end of his career, and his relationship with his neighbor, taxi dancer Gloria Price (Irene Kane), and her violent employer Vincent Rapallo (Frank Silvera).
In New York, veteran welterweight boxer Davey Gordon lives in the same building as taxi dancer Gloria Price. Their windows face each other, and they steal glances at one another. The two leave their building at the same time to report to their jobs: Davey prepares to fight newcomer Kid Rodriguez, and Gloria is picked up by Vinnie Rapallo, her boss at a dance hall. Davey's fight with Kid Rodriguez is televised, and Rapallo brings Gloria to his office, both to watch the fight and to make sexual advances. After Davey is knocked out, he goes home and takes a phone call from his uncle, who wants Davey to return to the family farm near Seattle. Davey falls asleep but is awakened from a nightmare by Gloria's screaming. He sees that Rapallo is assaulting her, shouts at Rapallo to scare him off, and runs across the roof of the building to reach Gloria's apartment, finding her unharmed.
The next morning, Davey and Gloria share breakfast. Gloria describes her family history: her older sister Iris was an accomplished ballerina, and their mother died while giving birth to Gloria. Gloria's father favored Iris and Gloria resented her. Shortly after their father's death, Iris committed suicide. Davey and Gloria fall for each other and arrange to go to Seattle together after collecting their final payments.
At the dance hall, Rapallo initially refuses to give Gloria her last payment as he sees her lover standing outside. Before she leaves, she insults Rapallo, calling him old and smelly. Meanwhile, thieves steal Davey's scarf and Davey chases after them just before his manager Albert arrives with his final payment. Rapallo speaks to his henchmen, who find Gloria standing next to Albert outside the building. They entice Gloria back inside with the promise of money and then, mistaking Albert for Davey, they chase and kill him. Davey and Gloria reunite and leave with Gloria's payment. At the apartment building, Davey vacates his unit and crosses the roof to Gloria's, finding it empty as well. Looking across to his old window, Davey observes police searching for him because they suspect him in the murder of his manager.
Davey stalks Rapallo and, at gunpoint, forces him to drive to a hideout where Gloria is being held prisoner. As Davey attempts to free Gloria, the gangsters overpower him. Gloria begs for her life, kisses Rapallo, and promises to go away with him, but he scorns her even though she claims not to care about Davey. Davey jumps through a window and escapes. Pursued by the gangsters, he uses a fire escape to climb onto a rooftop. Rapallo chases him into a mannequin warehouse, and they fight, Rapallo wielding an axe and Davey a pike pole. Davey kills Rapallo.
At Penn Station, Davey awaits his train to Seattle and recalls the events of the past few days. Police questioned him and Gloria separately, and once they concluded that he acted in self-defense and was not responsible for Albert's murder, he was freed. Gloria finds Davey at the station and the two embrace.
This was Kubrick's second feature. Kubrick removed his first film, Fear and Desire (1952), from circulation over his dissatisfaction with it. Kubrick directed that film between the ages of 23 and 24, and had to borrow $40,000 (equivalent to $485,000 in 2025) from his uncle Martin Perveler, who owned a chain of drug stores in Los Angeles. Killer's Kiss, originally titled Kiss Me, Kill Me, was also financed privately through family and friends, but because Fear and Desire did not recoup its production budget, Perveler did not invest this time. Most of the initial budget was covered by Morris Bousel, a Bronx pharmacist who was rewarded with a co-producer credit.
Kubrick began to shoot the film with sound recorded on location, as was common practice in Hollywood. However, frustrated by the intrusion of the microphone into his lighting scheme, Kubrick fired his sound man and decided to post-dub the entire film as he had with his first film. The film is notable for its location shots in the old Penn Station, which was demolished in 1963, as well as Times Square, and the run-down streets of both the Brooklyn waterfront and of Hell's Hundred Acres – the nickname at the time for Manhattan's SoHo neighborhood.
Ballerina Ruth Sobotka, Kubrick's wife at the time, was the art director for this film, as well as for Kubrick's next, The Killing. She is also featured in a long dance solo, playing the role of Iris. Then-model and future writer and television journalist Chris Chase, using the stage name Irene Kane, made her acting debut as the female lead.
Against Kubrick's wishes, United Artists required the film be recut with a happy ending.
United Artists paid $100,000 for the film and also agreed to provide $100,000 for Kubrick's next, The Killing.
The film features the song "Once", written by Norman Gimbel and Arden Clar. It is one of Gimbel's earliest contributions to a film, although his lyrics do not appear in the final version.
On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 82% of 28 critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of 6.6/10.
When released, the staff at Variety magazine gave the film a mixed review, and wrote:
Ex-Look photographer Stanley Kubrick turned out Killer's Kiss on the proverbial shoestring. Kiss was more than a warm-up for Kubrick's talents, for not only did he co-produce but he directed, photographed and edited the venture from his own screenplay [originally written by Howard Sackler] and original story...Kubrick's low-key lensing occasionally catches the flavor of the seamy side of Gotham life. His scenes of tawdry Broadway, gloomy tenements and grotesque brick-and-stone structures that make up Manhattan's downtown eastside loft district help offset the script's deficiencies.
In 1994, New York Times critic Janet Maslin, in her review of a Film Forum double bill featuring Kubrick's first two feature films, concludes her piece with this brief reassessment of Killer's Kiss:
Killer's Kiss brought the director onto more conventional territory, with a film noir plot about a boxer, a gangster and a dance hall girl. Using Times Square and even the subway as his backdrop, Mr. Kubrick worked in an uncharacteristically naturalistic style despite the genre material, with mixed but still fascinating results. The actress playing the dance hall girl, billed as Irene Kane, is the writer Chris Chase, whose work has frequently appeared in The New York Times. Frank Silvera [sic] plays the boxer, whose career is described as 'one long promise without fulfillment.' In the case of Mr. Kubrick's own career, the fulfillment came later. But here is the promise.
Locarno International Film Festival: Prize, Best Director, Stanley Kubrick; 1959.
In 1983 Matthew Chapman directed Strangers Kiss, a film that portrayed the making of Killer's Kiss.
The film was released on DVD and Blu-ray as a special feature of The Criterion Collection's release of Kubrick's The Killing. A 4K UHD Blu-ray was released by Kino Lorber on June 28, 2022.
On June 22, 2026, it was announced that the film would be later re-released on 4K as part of The Criterion Collection's release of The Complete Kubrick box set.
Killer's Kiss at the TCM Movie Database (archived)
Killer's Kiss informational site and DVD review at DVD Beaver (includes images)
Altshausen is a small Swabian municipality with around 4,100 inhabitants, near the city of Ravensburg in Baden-Württemberg, in southern Germany.
Altshausen is situated in Upper Swabia, about 40 kilometers north of Lake Constance. North-west of the village is the Upper Danube Nature Park while to the South-west is the hill-chain of the Altdorfer Wald.
It is notable for its Teutonic Order castle and as the birthplace of Hermann of Reichenau. In the center of the town there is the Altshausen Schloss, which is the main palace still owned by the House of Württemberg.
Altshausen is part of the Upper Swabian Baroque Route, a tourist road from the Swabian Alps to Upper Swabia. On both routes the tourists can visit many monuments and points of view.
Altshausen is located at the Herbertingen-Aulendorf railway.
Franz Anton Bagnato (1731–1810), Baroque architect
Carl Gottfried Gok (1869–1945), businessman and politician
Hermann of Reichenau (1013–1054), Benedictine monk and scholar
Duchess Marie-Thérèse of Württemberg (born 1934), daughter of the claimant to the royal throne of Württemberg
Gustav Mesmer (1903–1994), inventor of human-powered flying machines
Jost Metzler (1909–1975), World War II submarine commander
Josef Schmid (born 1953), Olympic middle-distance runner
Sausset-les-Pins, France (a city near Marseille)
Chilā (Nepal Bhasa: 𑐔𑐶𑐮𑐵, चिला) is the fifth month in the Nepal Era calendar, the national lunar calendar of Nepal. The month coincides with Phalguna (फागुन) in the Hindu lunar calendar and March in the Gregorian calendar.
Chilā begins with the new moon and the full moon falls on the 15th of the lunar month. The month is divided into the bright and dark fortnights which are known as Chilā Thwa (चिला थ्व) and Chilā Gā (चिला गा) respectively.
The major event that occurs during this month is Holi, the festival of colors, which begins on the 8th day of the bright fortnight and climaxes on the full moon day. The Chir, a pole surmounted by an umbrella-like structure decorated with strips of colorful cloth, is erected at Kathmandu Durbar Square to announce the festival.
The sacred bathing ceremony of the deity Nālā Karunāmaya, the Bodhisattva of Compassion, is held on the 1st day of the dark fortnight at Nālā. The chariot procession of Nālā Karunamaya is held on the 3rd day.
The festival of Pahan Charhe, one of the most important religious celebrations in Kathmandu, starts on the 14th day of the dark fortnight. Ghode Jātrā, the horse racing festival, is held the next day at the open ground of Tundikhel.
Bahinabai Chaudhari (24 August 1880 – 3 December 1951) was a Khandeshi language poet from Jalgaon district of Bombay State, India. She became a noted poet posthumously.
Bahinabai was born in a Mahajan family at Asode in Khandesh region of the present-day Jalgaon district on the 24 August 1880, on the day of Naga Panchami. Her mother's name was Bhimai, and her father's name was Ukhaji Mahajan. She had three brothers - Ghama, Gana, and Ghana, and three sisters - Ahilya, Sita, and Tulsa. At the age of 13, in 1893, she was married to Nathuji Khanderao Chaudhari of Jalgaon. Following her husband's death in 1910, she led a very difficult life because of the economic, social, cultural, and emotional circumstances arising out of widowhood. She had a daughter named Kashi and two sons, Omkar and Sopandev (1907-1982).
Bahinabai composed her songs verbally in ovi (ओवी) metre in a mixture of two dialects: Khandeshi and Levaganboli. Her son Sopandev, who became a well-known poet, transcribed them. According to one account, Sopandev read the story of Savitri and Satyavan to his mother from his textbook, and by the next morning, she had composed a song of the tale. Impressed by her talent, he began writing down of her songs in a notebook. Her poetry is characterized as reflective and abstract with iconic and realist imagery. It captures the essence of her life, reflects the culture of village and farming life, and presents her wisdom.
After his mother's death on 3 December 1951, Sopandev found the notebook and shared one of her poems with Prahlād Keshav (Acharya) Atre's attention. Atre recounts calling the first of Bahinabai's poems he heard "pure gold" in his introduction to the collection published under the title Bahinabainchi gani (Bahinabai's Songs) in 1952 by Suchitra Prakashan.
North Maharashtra University was renamed the Kavayitri Bahinabai Chaudhari North Maharashtra University in her honour.
Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University has recommended Bahinabainchi Gani as a part of their curriculum since June 2012.
Balbharati includes her poems in school textbooks of Marathi language in Maharashtra state board schools.
The 1943 Egypt Cup final was the planned final match of the 1942–43 King Farouk Cup, scheduled to take place between Zamalek SC (Farouk) and Al Ahly SC. The match was canceled due to the suspension of players from both clubs after they toured in Palestine against the Egyptian Football Association decision.
The suspension was lifted on 19 April 1944, allowing the start of the 1943–44 Egypt Cup competition. This resulted in the 1943 title being shared between the two clubs, for the first and only time in the competition's history.
Crookwell is a small town located in the Southern Tablelands of New South Wales, Australia, in the Upper Lachlan Shire. At the 2016 census, Crookwell had a population of 2,641. The town is at a relatively high altitude of 887 metres and there are several snowfalls during the cooler months. The nearest major centre is the city of Goulburn which is about a half-hour drive to the south-east of the town. Crookwell is easily accessible to the state capital of Sydney and also the federal capital of Canberra.
Most employment is based on rural industries, and the district is renowned for potato farming. Crookwell is also home to what was NSW's first wind farm, which consists of 8 turbines, and is located a few kilometres out of town on the road towards Goulburn.
A railway once connected Goulburn and Crookwell, which opened in 1902, but passenger services to Crookwell station ceased in 1974, and the last goods train ran in 1985. The line is technically not closed, but has been listed as out of use, and in some locations is now impassable.
The area now known as Crookwell lies within the traditional lands of the Gundangurra people. These people spoke a similar if not identical language to the neighbouring Ngunnawal people to their south.
The first Europeans known to be in the area were the exploratory party of surveyor James Meehan which camped 1 km south of present-day Grabben Gullen (12 km south-west of Crookwell). John Oxley passed to the north and east later that same year. Crookwell was originally known as "Kiama" but later renamed after the river. The area around Crookwell was first settled in the 1820s, and had received its current name by the 1860s.
By 1840, some inns had appeared at the crossroads, but Binda remained the head of the district. After this, selection of blocks occurred; and the population of was over 100 by midway through that decade. The first allotments were sold at the end of the decade. By the mid-1870s the population had already reached 1000 people.
In 1865, Mary Gilmore was born just 16 km south in the town or Roslyn.
From 1941 to 1945, 508,500 tons of iron ore was mined—about six miles by road from the town—and railed to Port Kembla for wartime steel production.
Crookwell contained one of Australia's first wind farms, the Crookwell Wind Farm and the first wind farm that fed into the national power grid.
Crookwell has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:
Goulburn-Crookwell railway: Crookwell railway station
In the 2021 Census, there were 2,686 people in Crookwell. In the 2016 census 85.8% of people were born in Australia and 91.4% of people spoke only English at home. The most common responses for religion were Catholic 34.9%, Anglican 30.1%, No Religion 14.3% and Uniting Church 7.8%.
Crookwell is the seat of the Upper Lachlan Shire Council local government area (LGA) of New South Wales, Australia, formed in 2004.
Crookwell is approximately 2.5 hours drive from Sydney via Goulburn, and 1.5 hours from Canberra. Other than the main road to Goulburn, minor roads link Crookwell with Bathurst, Boorowa, Grabben Gullen, Laggan, and Taralga.
Crookwell railway station was the terminus of the Crookwell railway line.
Crookwell has a small unpaved airstrip approximately 5 km south of the town.
Due to its exposed location on the upwind side of the Great Dividing Range and somewhat southern latitude, snow is not uncommon during the winter months, with occasional heavy falls. Summers are warm and dry, with cool to cold nights. Winters are cold and wet; when the westerly wind is persistent the daily maximum temperature can struggle to exceed 3 °C (37 °F).
Radio stations with transmitters located in Crookwell include:
93.5 Eagle FM 103.9 FM (commercial) (2SNO)
Depending on location some Goulburn, Illawarra, and/or Canberra based radio stations can also be heard. Eagle FM and GNFM (formerly 2GN) are Goulburn based but licensed to serve towns in the Southern Tablelands including Crookwell. In order to reach Crookwell, both have transmitters which relay the Goulburn broadcast but on different frequencies to Goulburn.
Crookwell has a low powered transmitter broadcasting ABC Television.
Residents wishing to receive a wider range of channels and in digital can attempt to receive signals from either Canberra (Black Mountain), or Orange (Mount Canobolas), although Crookwell is located in the fringe area of both transmitters.
Another option is to use the VAST free-to-view satellite service, which offers a similar range of channels.
The local newspaper, the Crookwell Gazette was published in print from 1885 until 2020. It now exists in website form only, and shares resources with the Goulburn Post.
The most popular sport in Crookwell is rugby league. Crookwell has a team competing in the Canberra Rugby League's second division competition, the George Tooke Shield. The club competed on and off in the Group 8 and ACT first grade competitions from 1932 until 1993.
The town also has a rugby union team, the Crookwell Dogs. The club was founded in 1975 and competes in the ACT and Southern NSW Rugby Union's second division competition.
Notable people include Kellie White and Emily Smith (Hockeyroos Captain), who both played for the Hockeyroos in international competition.
"Dirty Love" is a song by the British drum and bass producer Wilkinson. It features vocals from British singer Talay Riley. It was released on 12 October 2014 through RAM Records as the first single from the extended edition of his debut studio album Lazers Not Included, and the seventh single overall. The song entered the UK Singles Chart at number 20, after sitting at number 13 in the midweeks.
Originally set to be the seventh single from Lazers Not Included 2.0, "Dirty Love" was set to feature on the deluxe re-release of Wilkinson's debut album Lazers Not Included. The song was to be released on 21 September 2014, followed by the album on 18 August 2014, which was to feature six previously unheard tracks. However, the project was scrapped and the songs from it will feature on his second studio album that will be released in 2015. An "extended edition" of his debut album was released, however, and includes this song alongside remixes of and by Wilkinson.
A music video to accompany the release of "Dirty Love" was first released onto YouTube on 27 August 2014. The video has since accumulated nearly 7,943,000 views as of 4 October 2018.
USS Jean Sands was a steamer acquired by the Union Navy during the American Civil War. She was used by the Union Navy as a tugboat and salvage vessel in support of the Union Navy.
Jean Sands was built at Brooklyn, New York, in 1863 and was purchased by the Navy at New York City from T. F. Rowland 18 October 1864. She was stationed at the Norfolk Navy Yard where she served as a tug and salvage vessel. Jean Sands was sold 16 May 1892.
This article incorporates text from the public domain Dictionary of American Naval Fighting Ships. The entry can be found here.
A local information system (LIS) is a form of information system built with business intelligence tools, designed primarily to support geographic reporting. They overlap with some capabilities of geographic information systems (GIS), although their primary function is the reporting of statistical data rather than the analysis of geospatial data. LIS also tend to offer some common knowledge management functionality for storage and retrieval of unstructured data such as documents. They deliver functionality to load, store, analyse and present statistical data that has a strong geographic reference. In most cases the data is structured as indicators and is linked to discrete geographic areas, for example population figures for US counties or numbers claiming unemployment benefit across wards in England. The ability to present this data using data visualization tools like charts and maps is also a core feature of these systems.
The term "LIS" has emerged since 2004, primarily in the UK public sector. To date it is not widely used elsewhere although other terms like community information systems apply to solutions, primarily in North America, that have a great deal of overlap. Another widely used and largely synonymous term is data observatory. Data observatory is a more widely used term internationally particularly within the area of public health where sites which often include this type of statistical reporting application are often termed a health observatory.
The primary application for LIS is to provide a place-focused evidence base that is easily accessible to a wide range of users including data experts, managers, policy makers, front-line staff and citizens. They provide a wide range of statistics and reports allowing users to review the current evidence base and build a picture of localities and neighbourhoods for their area of interest. LIS are commonly used by partnerships where they need to come together to provide joined-up services for a common area. The ability to have a common evidence base and a platform to share sensitive and non-sensitive data is critical in this situation. LIS enables partners to publish a wide range of indicators in the form of defined outputs which combine locally and nationally available data into more meaningful intelligence aimed at specific user groups
In the UK, like many other countries, there has been a rapid growth in the availability of small area statistics. National Neighbourhood Statistics projects across the UK, set up as a result of the PAT 18 report, have opened up access to a wide range of government small area based statistics. This has been accompanied by a gradual shift across the public sector, a shift that remains very much on-going, towards the recognition that policy and decisions should be influenced to a greater degree by evidence. There also continues to be a growing acceptance that some services can be more effectively delivered by targeting resources at specific areas of need − the idea of high demand 'hotspots'. This relies on having reliable and detailed data about the needs of customers, in this case citizens, and where they live, work and take leisure time.
In England in particular this has led to a rapid increase in the number of Local Information Systems particularly within local Authorities and Local Strategic Partnerships. This development has been actively supported by the Department of Communities and Local Government (CLG) under their ‘Neighbourhood Renewal’ agenda. A national research project was funded to identify examples and disseminate best practice – this reported publicly in 2004 and led to a more formal report being published in 2006. CLG's role as a catalyst in this area is further re-enforced through its provision of Neighbourhood Renewal Funds (NRF) - this funding was used by a number of authorities to pump-prime their initial LIS developments.
An initiative is currently on-going through the CLG Information Management Programme to coordinate all LIS activity across local government and partnerships. This has led to regular national LIS meetings and a dedicated LIS forum. To date it is estimated that approximately 50 per cent of top tier authorities in England now have some form of LIS. In some cases these have been built as bespoke solutions, in other cases they are based on off-the-shelf products. Elsewhere within the UK this figure is lower although an initiative has been launched in Scotland in 2009 resulting in a Scottish LIS Toolkit to complement the English version.
The range of data managed within a LIS can be wide and classified in many different ways. Most common is some form of domain specific classification where indicators are grouped into top level categories like ‘Demography’, ‘Health and Welfare’, ‘Crime and Community Safety’, ‘Education and Children's Services’, ‘Environment’ and ‘Economy’. There may also be cross-cutting themes such as ‘Performance’ and ‘Social Disadvantage’. In the UK key government data sources include ONS Neighbourhood Statistics, CLG, Dept for Work and Pensions, NOMIS, Audit Commission and several areas of NHS information services. However the real value of LIS is their ability to combine national data with local data available from a wide range of internal business systems including those of partners. This local data is often not provided to central government and, even when it is, it tends to be in a form that limits its value.
Talk LIS Audio Interviews (Talk LIS with Cambridgeshire County Council - Local Information Systems online Interviews with UK Councils)
Talk LIS Audio Interviews (Talk LIS with Rochdale and Wigan Council - Local Information Systems online Interviews with UK Councils)
CLG LIS Home Page (Communities and Local Government)
LIS Report and Benefits of LIS report (Communities and Local Government)
List of all LIS in England (maintained by Data4nr - Data for Neighbourhoods and Regeneration)
LIS: How to.. Guidance Improvement Service (Scotland)
Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist is the first collaboration novel written by Rachel Cohn and David Levithan. The novel was published in 2006 by Alfred F. Knopf Books for Young Readers. It was adapted into the 2008 feature film of the same name, in which both Levithan and Cohn briefly appear.
The novel was in part inspired by Dashiell Hammett's The Thin Man, though other than the names of the two protagonists bears little resemblance to its inspiration. The chapters from Nick's perspective are written by Levithan while the chapters from Norah's perspective are written by Cohn.
The novel is told from the alternating perspectives of Nick, the only straight member of a queercore rock band, and Norah, the daughter of a well-known music producer. After a concert, Nick sees his ex-girlfriend in the bar and asks Norah to pretend to be his girlfriend for five minutes. Norah agrees but only because she wants to find a ride for her very drunk friend Caroline. Through myriad circumstances, Nick and Norah find themselves spending the rest of the night together, heading to a strip club to watch nuns gyrate to The Sound of Music and sneaking into a hotel to make out. At the end of the novel, they decide that perhaps they don't know what the future holds, but they are willing to give this relationship a try.
Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist received a starred review from Kirkus Reviews, who called the novel "sensual and full of texture," a book that "perfectly capture[s] teen music-geek talk and delicious stuff about kissing and what lies beyond." Publishers Weekly also positively review the novel, calling it "compulsively readable."
Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist was adapted into a film of the same name. The screenplay was written by Lorene Scafaria. The film was directed by Peter Sollett and stars Michael Cera and Kat Dennings.
The film premiered on September 6, 2008, at the 2008 Toronto International Film Festival and was released theatrically on October 3, 2008. It tripled its US$10 million budget with a total gross of US$33.5 million.
Banded Peak is a 2,934-metre (9,626-foot) summit located in the Elbow River valley of Kananaskis Country in the Canadian Rockies of Alberta, Canada. Banded Peak has a distinctive limestone cliff band which gave it its descriptive name. Its name has been used since around 1896. The peak is visible from Highway 66, weather permitting. The mountain's name became official in 1951 by the Geographical Names Board of Canada.
Banded Peak is composed of sedimentary rock laid down during the Precambrian to Jurassic periods. Formed in shallow seas, this sedimentary rock was pushed east and over the top of younger rock during the Laramide orogeny.
Based on the Köppen climate classification, Banded Peak is located in a subarctic climate with cold, snowy winters, and mild summers. Temperatures can drop below −20 C with wind chill factors below −30 C. Precipitation runoff from the mountain drains into the Elbow River which is a tributary of the Bow River.
The Sheffield Skeeter X-1 is an American single-seat lightweight homebuilt aircraft designed and built by Kenneth Sheffield of Littleton, Colorado. Designed for amateur construction only the prototype was built.
Kenneth Sheffield set out to design a low-cost, easy-to-build aircraft. He included folding wings, a simple structure and powered it with a Volkswagen air-cooled engine. Design was started in 1966 and by April 1970 the Skeeter X-1, registered N117 had flown. The Skeeter X-1 is a parasol strut-braced monoplane with a welded steel fuselage. The fuselage is covered in wood and metal in the cockpit area but the aft-structure is uncovered and the pilot sits in an open cockpit. The two-spar wings fold for transportation, and they have ailerons, but no trim tabs or flaps. The wooden tail is strut and wire braced and fabric covered, and the landing gear is a fixed tailwheel type with a steerable tailwheel. The Skeeter X-1 was designed to me powered by any converted Volkswagen engine from 50 to 72 hp (37 to 54 kW), the prototype had a 72 hp (54 kW) Volkswagen converted motor-car engine driving a two-bladed fixed pitch tractor propeller designed by Sheffield.
The Skeeter X-1 was registered by the Federal Aviation Administration in the experimental homebuilt category and the company planned to sell plans and finished propellers to customers but only the prototype appears to have been built.
Data from Jane's All the World's Aircraft 1973-74General characteristics
Powerplant: 1 × Volkswagen converted motor-car engine , 72 hp (54 kW)
The 2009 Campeonato Nacional de Fútbol Femenino season, was an amateur women's football championship, developed, organized, and promoted by the Peruvian Football Federation (FPF), which granted the classification to the 2010 Copa Libertadores Femenina.
Universidad Particular de Iquitos won their first title after defeating Universidad San Antonio de Abad by a 5–0 score in the finals. As champions, Universidad Particular de Iquitos qualified for the 2010 Copa Libertadores Femenina.
Rsssf.com - Peru - List of Women Champions
Attabotics was a robotics company based in Calgary, Alberta, Canada that specialized in Automated Storage and Retrieval System (AS/RS) inventory management systems. Founded in 2016, the company designed and manufactured robots that operate within a modular, three-dimensional storage structure that minimizes the traditional fulfillment center footprint.
In July 2025, Attabotics filed for bankruptcy protection.
As of September 2025, Attabotics assets were purchased by Lafayette Engineering Inc, based out of Kentucky USA.
The Attabotics system grew out of a thought experiment about what an automated warehouse designed specifically for robots might look like. After exploring multiple designs, founder Scott Gravelle took inspiration from the natural world:"The original inspiration for the company was the leaf-cutter ant, whose Latin name is ‘Atta’... I saw a documentary where a researcher had poured molten aluminum down an ant colony and then dug it up. Ants integrate goods vertically."—Scott Gravelle, Attabotics Founder, CEO, CTO
Attabotics' 3D storage system, known as The Studio, integrates order picking, packing, and shipping into a single solution, which consists of four interconnected systems:
The Gallery: A modular, cube-based storage facility that provides three-dimensional access to inventory stored inside. Dense and stackable up to 9 meters, the Gallery can reduce warehouse space requirements by up to 85%.
The Attabot Blade: An intelligent robot designed to move horizontally and vertically throughout the Gallery structure to retrieve good and deliver them for sortation, packing, and shipping. Each robot functions independently and can access any bin without having to dig to reach it. The latest generation of Attabot was re-engineered in 2022 following millions of test cycles.
The Nodes: Configurable workstations incorporated into the Gallery where items are delivered for sortation. Additional nodes can be installed at any time to increase productivity.
The Weave: A proprietary order management and control software that efficiently manages robot movement and order fulfillment. Optimized for the Gallery's three-dimensional design, it allows for intelligent inventory management and customized order processing.
Although the first generation of Attabotics solutions utilized existing technologies to deliver a proof-of-concept and pilot model, later designs incorporate several proprietary designs developed by the company.
Attabotics was founded by Scott Gravelle in 2016 to capitalize on emerging opportunities in the growing AS/RS robotics market. The company developed their initial proof of concept in 2017 and received an investment from Alberta Innovates.
In December 2018 the company announced the development of a new manufacturing site at Calgary's YYC Global Logistics Park in partnership with Opportunity Calgary Investment Fund. Also in 2018 the company begins its partnership with Gordon Food Service, one of North America's largest foodservice distributors to automate elements of its supply chain.
In June 2019 the company announced their plans to build a new headquarters in Calgary. In May 2019 established a new partnership with Microsoft to expand edge computing, LTE networking, and IoT capabilities.
In December of 2020 Attabotics received a $34 million investment from the Government of Canada.
In May of 2021 the company announced a partnership with AltaML and the Alberta Machine Intelligence Institute (Amii) to improve supply chain efficiencies. In August of 2021 Attabotics filed a Patent infringement suit against competitor Urbx.
In 2022 Attabotics expanded to work with companies in South Korea and the EU through partnerships and agreements with various companies, including Körber. In October of 2022 Attabotics was selected by KPMG and the United States Department of Defense for a new warehouse for the Marine Corps Logistics Command. The company faced a customer lawsuit in July 2022. In September of 2022 Richard Cheung was hired as the Chief Financial Officer.
On March 15, 2023, there was a fire at a Canadian Tire distribution center where an Attabotics system was operating. Each company blamed the other, with Attabotics suing its customer. There had been two earlier fires in 2021, caused by earlier Attabotics equipment (one at the same location and another at a Nordstrom facility).
On June 29, 2025, employees received a mass email informing them of immediate termination. Attabotics filed for bankruptcy the same week. Later analyses of the collapse cited over-spending and deteriorating trust from customers and investors, resulting from the company's aggressive expansion despite reliability problems involving the hardware and firmware.
Fast Company's 32nd Most Innovative Company of 2020
Fast Company's 8th Most Innovative Robotics Company of 2023
"Nordstrom partners with tech companies for faster delivery". CNBC Television. December 5, 2019.
Steven Jeffrey Seddon (born 25 December 1997) is an English professional footballer who plays as a left-back or left wing-back for EFL League One club AFC Wimbledon.
Seddon was on the books of Reading as a youngster before joining Birmingham City in 2014 when he left school. He spent the first half of the 2018–19 season on loan to League Two club Stevenage, for whom he made his Football League debut, and the second half on loan to AFC Wimbledon of League One. In 2019–20 he was loaned to Portsmouth and he spent the first half of the 2020–21 season back with AFC Wimbledon. He made 12 appearances for Birmingham before leaving for Oxford United in 2021. He played regularly for his first season and then spent time on loan at Cambridge United and Burton Albion. Seddon returned to Wimbledon in the summer of 2025 following the expiration of his contract with Motherwell.
Seddon was born in Berkshire. An older brother is the British steeplechaser Zak Seddon, who is coached by their father, Jeff. They have another brother, Matthew. Seddon attended The Piggott School in Wargrave and then The Forest School, Winnersh, the partner school of Reading F.C.'s academy. While at school, he was a classmate of future AFC Wimbledon teammate Matty Stevens.
He joined Reading after being spotted when playing for Twyford Comets. After a trial with Birmingham City in 2014, he took up a scholarship with the club that summer. Interviewed later that year, he assessed his strength as his left foot, and felt he needed to improve his tackling.
He signed his first professional contract, of two years, in April 2016. In the 2017–18 season, he trained with the first team on occasion, and was included in the travelling squad for first-team fixtures, although did not make the bench. In December, with centre-back Harlee Dean suspended, Seddon was suggested by the Birmingham Mail as a possible addition to the squad for the visit to Fulham, and on 27 January 2018, he was given a squad number and included among the substitutes for the FA Cup fourth-round visit to Premier League club Huddersfield Town. He remained unused, and later in the season was an unused substitute for two Championship matches.
In May 2018, Seddon signed a new one-year deal, with the option of a second year. He was a member of the first-team squad for their pre-season training camp in Austria, and was given a squad number for the 2018–19 season. He was an unused substitute for the 2018–19 EFL Cup first-round defeat away to Reading.
Seddon joined League Two club Stevenage on 30 August 2018 on loan until 15 January 2019. He made his Football League debut two days later in the starting eleven for the match at home to Cambridge United; he was substituted at half-time as his team went on to lose 1–0. Seddon made 25 appearances during his loan spell, of which 23 were in league competition.
The day after his loan at Stevenage expired, Seddon joined AFC Wimbledon of League One on loan until the end of the season. He went straight into the starting eleven, playing the whole of a 4–1 defeat at home to Barnsley, but suffered a minor hamstring injury that kept him out of the next match. He returned to the starting eleven for the visit to Sunderland, and stayed in it for the remaining 16 league matches, finishing with a 12-match unbeaten run that secured his team's League One status for the 2019–20 season.
Seddon made his first competitive appearance for Birmingham in the starting eleven for the opening fixture of the 2019–20 season, a visit to Brentford in the Championship. He marked his debut with a run and cross to set up Kristian Pedersen's matchwinning header. He started twice more in the league, and provided the assist for Álvaro Giménez' first goal for the club, in a 2–0 win against Barnsley, but played no part in the matchday squad after the end of August.
Seddon joined League One club Portsmouth on 2 January 2020 on loan until the end of the season.
Seddon was an unused substitute for two of Birmingham's first three matches of the 2020–21 season, before returning to AFC Wimbledon on 24 September on loan for the rest of the campaign. He marked his second debut, two days later away to Fleetwood Town, with the only goal of the match after "a determined charge from the back". He had made 19 appearances in all competitions when he was recalled from loan on 31 December 2020.
Birmingham's head coach, Aitor Karanka, recalled Seddon to assess his readiness to play a part in the first team, particularly as regular left-back Pedersen was injured. He was an unused substitute on 2 January, but that was the last time Karanka included him in the matchday squad. Incoming head coach Lee Bowyer selected him on the bench for his first match in charge, gave him a few minutes at the end, and then included him in the starting eleven for the visit of Swansea City on 2 April. Despite a rash first-half booking (attributed by Bowyer to nerves and enthusiasm) and replacement at half-time by the experienced George Friend, Seddon started three of the next five matches as Birmingham secured their Championship survival, and the club took up the one-year option on his contract.
Seddon signed a three-year contract with League One club Oxford United on 22 July 2021; the fee was undisclosed. He made his debut on the opening day of the season, playing the whole of the visit to Cambridge United. After 42 minutes, he "arrived at the back post to meet Ryan Williams's cross and lashed an effort" past the goalkeeper to open the scoring; the match ended 1–1.
He played regularly during his first season, but spent most of the remainder of his contract out on loan, and was released at the end of the 2023–24 season.
Seddon joined League One club Cambridge United on 6 January 2023 on loan until the end of the season. He went straight into the starting eleven for the next day's match at home to Bristol Rovers, but lasted only until first-half stoppage-time when he was stretchered off with a head injury after colliding with his own goalkeeper.
On 14 July 2023, Seddon joined League One club Burton Albion on a season-long loan.
Seddon joined Scottish Premiership club Motherwell on 2 July 2024 on a one-year contract with an option for a second year.
On 24 June 2025, Seddon signed a one-year contract with newly promoted EFL League One club AFC Wimbledon, marking his third spell with the club following two previous loans.
Advantium is the brand name of a line of fast-cooking combination microwave ovens for household use sold by General Electric. They use radiant heat from halogen lamps and microwave energy, either separately or together. The combination is claimed to cook and brown the outside of foods with radiant energy, and the inside with penetrating microwave energy.
Starting in 1998, the engineering team of Kevin Nolan, Dong Soo Shin, Todd Vincent Graves, Charles Smith, and Royce Hunt designed the original Advantium, which went on sale in 1999, used 240-volt AC power, and drew up to 25 amperes. It can generally substitute for a conventional oven, a cooktop, and a grill, and cooks between two and eight times as quickly as conventional cooking.
Early models had plastic grills, which were not durable, and tended to snap off from the heat that the noisy fan exhausted into the kitchen. Newer models had stainless steel grills.
The Advantium 120, released in 2001, cooks less quickly, but operates at 120 volts.
't Woudt is a small village in the Dutch province of South Holland. It is located about 5 km southwest of the city of Delft, in the municipality of Midden-Delfland.
't Woudt (then spelled "'t Woud") was a separate municipality between 1812 and 1817, when it was divided into Groeneveld, Hoog en Woud Harnasch, and a part that merged with Hof van Delft.
't Woudt and Midden-Delfland Mooi Dichtbij portaal
Imperial Big Meal (Chinese: 滿漢大餐; pinyin: Mǎn Hàn Dàcān) are a brand of instant noodle that is marketed in Taiwan by the Uni-President Enterprises Corporation. It is a series of instant noodles with real pieces of beef. This product comes in a variety of flavors.
In 1983, the first bowl of "Imperial Big Meal Beef Noodles" came with a cooking bag. In the 1980s, Uni-President Enterprises Corporation came up with the idea of developing instant noodles with "conditioning bags" attached. Although they are now widely available, in the 1980s this was a very rare idea. This inspiration came from the room-temperature cooking bags developed by the United States Army, which used room-temperature sterilization soft bag technology combined with ready-to-eat bag when heated. The idea was jointly created with the renowned Taiwanese chef Fu Pei-mei, who once said, "Food should not be the exclusive right of the rich."
Francis Henney Smith (October 18, 1812 – March 21, 1890) was an American military officer, mathematician and educator. After graduating from West Point and a brief service in the United States Army, he became the first Superintendent of the Virginia Military Institute on its establishment in 1839, and held that post until shortly before his death. His superintendency included the four years of the American Civil War, during which he served as a major general in the Virginia militia and a colonel in the Confederate States Army.
Smith was born in Norfolk, Virginia. He married Miss Sarah Henderson on June 9, 1835 at West Point, New York. They had seven children.
Smith graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1833 and served as a second lieutenant in the United States Army until he resigned his commission on May 1, 1836. Thereafter, he was a professor of mathematics at Hampden–Sydney College from 1836 to 1839. When the Virginia Military Institute was established in Lexington, board of trustees member John Thomas Lewis Preston successfully recruited Smith to be the school's first superintendent. By the time classes had begun on November 11, 1839, Preston had been appointed to the faculty, and he worked with Smith at VMI until retiring in 1882.
Some time before the Civil War, he was appointed colonel in the Virginia Militia.
Smith was the author of An Elementary Treatise on Algebra (1858) and co-author of The American Statistical Arithmetic, Designed for Academies and Schools (1845), Best Methods of Conducting Common Schools (1849), College Reform (1850), and translator of An Elementary Treatise on Analytical Geometry (1860). Smith is also known as Sigma Nu International Fraternity's spiritual founder.
At the outbreak of the Civil War, Smith was appointed a Brevet Brigadier General in the Virginia Militia on April 24, 1861, then a colonel in the 9th Virginia Infantry Regiment on July 7, 1861. He was often absent and returned to VMI when it reopened in late 1861. He was dropped as colonel from the 9th Virginia Infantry Regiment in the reorganization of May 8, 1862 and then was Colonel of the VMI Infantry battalion between April 30, 1862 and May 18, 1862, May 11, 1864 and June 27, 1864 and March 1865 and April 1865. At some date not shown in the references, possibly coincident with his appointment as "major general of cadets," he was appointed a major general in the Virginia Militia. He was appointed "Major General of Cadets" on December 18, 1861 according to the inscription below his statue shown in the accompanying image. Regardless whether the date of that appointment coincided with the date of his appointment as major general in the Virginia Militia, his appointments in the Confederate Army were only to positions with the rank of colonel.
Major General John C. Breckinridge was commanding Confederate forces in the Department of Southwest Virginia during a critical time in the 1864 campaign in the Shenandoah Valley. Although he did not want to use the VMI cadets in battle, Breckinridge requested that Smith send them to reinforce his outnumbered army when Union forces began to move into the valley. On May 12, 1864, Smith sent almost the entire Corps of Cadets of VMI, leaving behind only 27 cadets to guard the Institute, to help hold off the advance of the Union Army under Major General Franz Sigel from the northern end of the valley. Smith, who was ill, also stayed behind. The cadets were led by 24-year-old Commandant of Cadets and VMI teacher Scott Ship. On May 15, 1864, the VMI Cadets earned distinction and fame at the Battle of New Market as the only Corps of Cadets in United States history to fight as a unit in battle. Ten cadets were killed and forty-seven were wounded in their defense of the center of the Confederate line at a critical point in the battle. The Union forces were defeated and Sigel withdrew them to Mount Jackson and then to his headquarters at Cedar Creek, Virginia.
On June 11, 1864, Major General David Hunter, who had replaced Sigel after New Market, ordered a retaliatory attack, his troops burning and shelling VMI's campus, forcing the relocation of classes to Richmond, where they remained until the city fell in April 1865. Classes returned to the Lexington campus in October, after the conclusion of the war.
Smith oversaw the reconstruction of VMI after its destruction, and remained as superintendent until December 31, 1889. He died in Lexington on March 21, 1890, at the age of 77, and is buried in Oak Grove Cemetery. His correspondence is retained by VMI.
List of American Civil War generals (Acting Confederate)
Allardice, Bruce S., Confederate Colonels, A Biographical Register. University of Missouri Press, Columbia, 2008. ISBN 978-0-8262-1809-4 (alk. paper).
Davis, William C. The Battle of New Market. Louisiana State University Press, Baton Rouge, 1975. ISBN 0-8071-1078-7 (pbk.)
Eicher, John H., and Eicher, David J., Civil War High Commands, Stanford University Press, 2001. ISBN 0-8047-3641-3.
Encyclopedia of Virginia Biography, Volume III. VII—Prominent Persons.
Warner, Ezra J., Generals in Gray. Louisiana State University Press, Baton Rouge, 1959. ISBN 0-8071-0823-5.
Alaska Senate district G is one of 20 districts of the Alaska Senate. It has been represented by Democrat Elvi Gray-Jackson since 2023. Gray-Jackson previously represented District I from 2019-2023. District G is located in Anchorage and encompasses the entirety of Alaska's 13th House of Representatives district and 14th House of Representatives district, including Spenard.
The Japanese Garden is a municipal park on the Avenue Princesse Grace, in the Larvotto ward of Monaco. It is next to the Grimaldi Forum convention centre. The garden is 0.7 hectares in size, and features a stylised mountain, hill, waterfall, beach, brook, and a Zen garden for meditation. It is open daily from 9:00 to sunset.
The garden was commissioned by Prince Rainier III in 1994. It was designed by Yasuo Beppu, the winner of the Flower Exhibition of Osaka 1990, as a miniature representation of Shintoist philosophy.
In November 2024, the garden hosted an exhibition of Japanese Bizen ceramics, featuring works by Living National Treasure Jun Isezaki, as well as pieces by emerging contemporary artists.
A detailed description of the Japanese Garden from JGarden Archived 2013-05-12 at the Wayback Machine
The Santa Rosa hitchhiker murders was a series of at least seven unsolved homicides and unsolved disappearances all involving young female hitchhikers occurring within Santa Rosa and throughout Sonoma County in the North Bay area of California beginning in 1972. All of the victims were found nude and with very little physical evidence and were dumped within rural areas near steep embankments or in creek beds near roads. The crime scenes were separate from the body location sites and were never located. Californian police believe that the perpetrator of the Santa Rosa murders "interviewed" potential victims before killing them. Despite several extensive investigations involving previously identified serial killers, the culprit(s) have remained unidentified for over fifty years.
Maureen Louise Sterling, 12, and Yvonne Lisa Weber, 13, both Herbert Slater Middle School students, disappeared around 9 p.m. on February 4, 1972, after visiting the Redwood Empire Ice Arena. Both girls, like other young people in that era, often hitchhiked. They were last seen hitchhiking on Guerneville Road, northwest of Santa Rosa.
In 2019, an acquaintance who had spoken with them earlier that evening recalled that Sterling and Weber had told her that a tall, slender man had asked them to smoke marijuana. The friend declined to accompany the girls to smoke with the man, whom she had never seen before. The witness told interviewers that she thought the man she saw in the lobby at the ice arena resembled serial killer Ted Bundy. The girls, whom the friend described as dressed in such a way that they were able to pass for several years older than they actually were, disappeared a short time later.
The friend was also interviewed in the 2024 HBO Max documentary The Truth About Jim and said she saw the man in profile as he stood in the lobby watching the skaters on the ice. She said he resembled a photograph of suspect Jim Mordecai, the subject of the documentary, taken in the early-1970s. Other reports at the time indicated that the two girls might have been looking for a ride to meet someone at a bowling alley. There were rumors that the girls might have previously been in contact with a man who lived along the Russian River, but police could not confirm that connection either. Classmates of the girls were questioned about their whereabouts at school the following week, but none of the leads police received proved fruitful. Police had believed the girls were runaways.
Their bodies were found on December 28, 1972, 2.2 miles (3.5 km) north of Porter Creek Road on Franz Valley Road, down a steep embankment approximately 66 feet (20 m) off the east side of the roadway. A single earring, orange beads and a 14-carat gold necklace with a cross were found at the scene. The cause of death could not be determined from the skeletal remains. Sterling's mother identified the cross necklace and earring as her daughter's property. The mate to the earring was not found at the scene. Binding materials were found in the brush at the site that suggested the two girls had been restrained by their killer or killers. No clothing or other items belonging to the girls were found.
Santa Rosa Junior College art student Kim Wendy Allen, 19, was also a frequent hitchhiker despite hearing warnings from her mother and one of her college professors about the danger of rape and/or murder for young female hitchhikers. Allen, like many other young women during that era, did not believe she was at risk. She was given a ride by two men on March 4, 1972, from her job at Larkspur Natural Foods to San Rafael. They last saw her at approximately 5:20 p.m. hitchhiking to school near the Bell Avenue entrance to Highway 101, northbound, carrying a large wooden soy barrel with red Chinese characters on it. Her body was found the following day down an embankment in a creek bed 20 feet (6.1 m) off Enterprise Road in Santa Rosa. The victim had been bound at the ankles and wrists, raped and slowly strangled with a cord for an estimated thirty minutes.
Semen was recovered from the body and a single gold loop earring was found at the site. Markings at the top of the embankment and a possible leg impression in the loam indicated the assailant likely slipped or fell while throwing or transporting the body. The two men who gave her a ride, one of whom was given and passed a polygraph test, were ruled out as suspects. Her checkbook was deposited in a drive-up mailbox across from the Kentfield, California Post Office sometime on the morning of March 24, 1972, 20 days after she was murdered. Police thought two fingerprints on the checkbook might belong to the killer. When she was found, Allen also had an oily substance on her right side that authorities said was similar to the oil used in a machine shop.
Lori Lee Kursa, 13, a Lawrence Cook Middle School student, had been reported missing by her mother on November 11, 1972 after disappearing while they shopped at a U-Save and was last seen on November 20 or 21 in Santa Rosa while visiting friends, having deliberately run away. Someone reported possibly seeing Kursa hitchhiking on November 30. Her home life was troubled and she was a frequent hitchhiker and habitual runaway. Her frozen remains were located on December 14, 1972, in a ravine approximately 50 feet (15 m) off Calistoga Road, northeast of Rincon Valley in Santa Rosa. The killer had thrown the body at least 30 feet (9.1 m) over an embankment. The girl had a single wire loop in each earlobe, but the rest of the earrings were missing and were not found at the scene.
The cause of her death was a broken neck with compression and hemorrhage of the spinal cord. The victim had not been raped and likely died one to two weeks prior to discovery. Two people later called in tips to the police about possible sightings of Kursa. One tipster reported seeing two men with a girl on Calistoga Road. A second caller reported seeing a girl with a Caucasian man who had “bushy” hair in a pickup truck that had been parked near the site where Kursa was later found deceased. Neither caller was able to provide further details.
A possible witness to her abduction later came forward stating that on an evening somewhere between December 3 and 9, 1972, while on Parkhurst Drive, he saw two men walking with a young girl. The girl, who fit Kursa's description, appeared to be physically impaired in some manner, as the two men were supporting her between them. The witness saw the men run across the road with the girl and push her into the back of a van that had been parked on the side of the roadway. The driver was a Caucasian man with an Afro-type hairstyle. The vehicle then sped north on Calistoga Road.
Authorities speculated that Kursa was kidnapped, forced into the van, stripped of her clothing, and that she opened the passenger door of the speeding vehicle in an attempt to escape her captor or captors, fell or jumped or was pushed out and broke her neck in the fall into the ravine. Her captor or captors left her by the side of the road. The broken neck would have prevented Kursa from moving, but it would have taken some time for her to die from the injury.
Carolyn Nadine Davis, 15, ran away from her home outside Anderson in Shasta County on February 6, 1973, and spent the next five months traveling. She had left her mother a note that said: “Dear Mom. Don't worry too much about me, the only thing I'm gonna be doing is keeping myself alive. Love, Carolyn.” She posted a letter to her mother and stepfather shortly after she ran away in which she wrote that she had left voluntarily and never planned to return home. Her older sister told an interviewer in 2022 that Davis actually stayed with her in her duplex apartment in Garberville, California after she ran away. Davis claimed she had witnessed a double murder in Shasta County and that she was afraid for her life.
Eventually Davis, increasingly paranoid that she might be found by someone connected with the murders, left her sister's apartment and hitchhiked to Illinois. She returned to Garberville in the summer of 1973 because her sister was about to give birth. Davis stayed with her grandmother for about two weeks in July 1973 before she decided to leave to return to her boyfriend in Illinois.
According to accounts, Davis told her grandmother that she planned to hitchhike to Modesto, California and stay there with friends. Her grandmother drove the 15-year-old girl to the downtown district of Garberville on July 15, 1973, and parked in front of the post office, which was located two city blocks away from Highway 101. Davis was last seen hitchhiking that afternoon near the Highway 101 ramp, southbound, in Garberville. Davis was never heard from again.
Her body was discovered on July 31, 1973 in Santa Rosa, just 3 feet (0.91 m) from where the remains of Sterling and Weber had been recovered seven months prior. The cause of her death was strychnine poisoning 10 to 14 days before discovery. It could not be determined whether the poison had been administered to Davis by needle or by pill. Strychnine was sometimes mixed with other drugs, but an autopsy showed no trace of either heroin or amphetamines in her system.
A pathologist determined her probable date of death was July 20, 1973, five days after her grandmother had last seen her. It could not be determined if she had been raped. An autopsy found that Davis had an injury to her right earlobe that appeared to be an attempted ear piercing. Her left earlobe had not been pierced. Investigators postulated that her 5 feet 7 inch, 100 pound body had been thrown from the road by her killer or killers as the hillside brush appeared undisturbed. An investigator said a witchcraft symbol meaning "carrier of spirits" was found by her body.
Police reported in 1975 that it was “a rectangle connected to a square, with bars running alongside” constructed of twigs or sticks. It was identified as an occult symbol dating back to medieval England and suggested a possible connection to the Zodiac Killer. The symbol was located on the roadway above the site where Davis was found. After Davis was found murdered, while her sister was working as a hotel maid at the California Motel in Anderson, she found a map in a room she was cleaning that had belonged to Davis and had been in her possession when she left Garberville. It had been written on by both Davis and her older sister who gave the map to the local police and also spoke with investigators in both Shasta and Sonoma Counties.
Theresa Diane Smith Walsh, 23, left her home in Miranda, in the winter of 1973 to spend time away from her husband and young son. She hitchhiked her way across California, often catching rides along Highway 101. She had never before had any difficulties or thought she was in danger while hitchhiking. In late December 1973, she was in Malibu, California but wanted to go home for Christmas to see her mother and son. She was last seen on December 22, 1973, at Zuma Beach in Malibu, intent on hitchhiking to Garberville. Her partially submerged body was found six days later by kayakers in Mark West Creek. She had been hogtied with clothesline rope, sexually assaulted, and strangled, and was determined to have been dead approximately one week. High water marks contemporaneous with heavy rains in the area suggested the body could have drifted several miles.
On July 2, 1979, the skeletal remains of a young white female were found in a ravine off Calistoga Road approximately 100 yards (91 m) from where the body of Lori Lee Kursa had been recovered seven years earlier. Due to the age of the remains, authorities initially believed them to be those of Jeannette Kamahele until a comparison of dental records later proved negative. The victim had been hogtied and her arm fractured around the time of her murder, and her corpse had been stuffed into a laundry or duffel bag before being dumped in the ravine, but there was no other evidence to establish a cause of death.
It was determined that the unidentified victim was approximately 16- to 21-years-old, wore hard contact lenses (kept in a metal candy tin with a picture of cherries on it), had red, auburn, or brown hair, was about 5 feet 3 inches (1.60 m) tall and at one time had broken a rib which was healed by the time of the murder. Her weight and eye color could not be ascertained, and no clothing was found. One expert consulted by authorities determined that the victim was likely killed between 1972 and 1974 and was about 19 years old. Hard contact lenses were not often sold in the United States and Canada after the mid-1970s when soft contact lenses became available. She had also been bound in the same manner as Walsh.
Lisa Michele Smith, 17, was last seen hitchhiking, a short distance away from her foster home, along Hearn Avenue in Santa Rosa. She was initially reported missing from Petaluma, California, by her foster parents on March 16, 1971. Shortly afterward, a young woman named "Lisa Smith", was hitchhiking on March 26, 1971, and was picked up by a male driver. He reportedly brandished a gun and threatened to rape her. She jumped out of the pickup, which was going about 55 miles per hour south of Novato, California. She was treated at Novato General Hospital for a skull fracture and multiple, severe cuts and bruises. A nurse at the hospital thought she looked about 21-years-old.
An article published on April 1, 1971, in the Santa Rosa Press Democrat reported that the "Lisa Smith" treated at Novato General Hospital was the same person as the missing 17-year-old Lisa Smith. The individual believed to have been Smith left the hospital before authorities could interview her and purportedly hitchhiked back to San Francisco. Her biological parents then located her shortly afterwards and took her back to their home in Livermore, California, according to the article, which quoted a juvenile officer from the sheriff's office.
However, the Press Democrat reported in 2011 that the missing 17-year-old Lisa Smith was not actually found. It is still not certain whether the two Smiths actually were the same woman or whether they were two separate people. All of the hospital and law enforcement records related to the case were missing by 2011 and authorities hoped to find Lisa Smith or someone who had known her to determine what had happened. Authorities suspect it is possible that she was a homicide victim or that her case could have been related to the other attacks in the area during the same time period.
Jeannette Kamahele, a 20-year-old Santa Rosa Junior College student of Hawaiian descent was last seen on April 25, 1972, hitchhiking near the Cotati on-ramp of Highway 101. Like other young people in the early 1970s, she often hitchhiked to get around. A friend witnessed her likely abduction and reported that she entered a faded brown Chevrolet pickup truck fitted with a homemade wooden camper and driven by a 20- to 30-year-old Caucasian male with an Afro hairstyle. Her body has never been found.
Kerry Ann Graham, 15, and Francine Marie Trimble, 14, of Forestville, California disappeared on December 16, 1978, after leaving their homes to visit a shopping mall in Santa Rosa. According to some reports, the girls had planned to attend a party in Santa Rosa. An acquaintance saw them hitchhiking at a gas station in Forestville, California. Their remains were discovered in July 1979 approximately 80 mi (130 km) north of Forestville, concealed within duct-taped garbage bags and buried within an embankment of a heavily overgrown woodland area located beside a remote section of Highway 20, 12 mi (19 km) from the city of Willits. Due to the advanced state of decomposition of the girls' remains, the specific cause of death of each victim has never been established, although both girls' deaths have always been considered to be a homicide. Furthermore, Graham's body was mistakenly identified as that of a male until genetic testing proved otherwise. The bodies of Graham and Trimble would remain unidentified until November 2015, when their identities were confirmed via the use of DNA profiling. The case itself remains one of the oldest cold cases within Mendocino County.
In 1975, some sources say the Federal Bureau of Investigation issued a report stating that fourteen unsolved homicides between 1972 and 1974 were committed by the same perpetrator. These consist of the six found victims as of 1975 and the following:
Rosa Vasquez, 20, last seen May 26; her body was found on May 29, 1973 near the Arguello boulevard entrance at Golden Gate Park in San Francisco. The victim had been strangled and her body thrown 7 feet (2.1 m) off the roadway into some shrubs. Vasquez had been a keypunch operator at Letterman General Hospital on the Presidio.
Yvonne Quilantang, 15, was found strangled in a vacant Bayview district lot on June 10, 1973. She was seven months pregnant and had been out to buy groceries.
Angela Thomas, 16, a resident of Belton, Texas, was found July 2, 1973, smothered on the playground of Benjamin Franklin Junior High School in Daly City. She had last been seen the previous evening at the Presidio of San Francisco walking away from the area at 9:00 p.m. A locket was recovered near the body.
Nancy Patricia Gidley, a 24-year-old radiographer last seen at a Rodeway Inn motel on July 12, 1973, was found strangled behind the George Washington High School gymnasium three days later. The victim was unclothed except for a single fish-shaped gold earring and was determined to have died within the previous 24 hours. Gidley had served four years in the Air Force and told friends and family in Mountain Home, Idaho that she intended to become a freelance writer for the San Francisco Chronicle and was going to San Francisco to be the maid of honor at the wedding of a friend from Hamilton Air Force Base, all of which proved false.
Nancy Feusi, 22, disappeared after going dancing at a club in the Sacramento area. Her remains were found on July 22, 1973, in Redding. She had been stabbed to death. In 2011, one of Feusi's five children, Angela Darlene Feusi McAnulty, was convicted of torturing, beating, and starving to death her 15-year-old daughter Jeanette Marie Maples. McAnulty became the second woman ever sentenced to die in Oregon and the first since the 1984 reinstatement of the death penalty.
Laura Albright O'Dell, 21, missing since November 4, 1973, was found three days later in bushes behind the boathouse at Stow Lake in Golden Gate Park. O'Dell's hands were tied behind her back, and the cause of death appeared to be from head injuries or strangulation.
Brenda Kaye Merchant, 19, was found stabbed to death at her home on February 1, 1974, in Marysville. She had been stabbed over 30 times with a long bladed knife and had asphyxiated on her own blood from her many wounds. The killer left a bloody handprint on the screen door of the apartment, and it is believed that Merchant was attacked between when she was last seen at 6 p.m. to when a loud argument was heard by neighbors at around midnight.
Donna Maria Braun, 14, whose strangled body was found at 7 p.m. on September 29, 1974 in the Salinas River near Monterey by a crop dusting pilot who was flying overhead. She was an Alisal High School freshman who lived with and was eventually identified by her mother and was last seen at 6.pm. on September 27, leaving her Salinas home.
Law enforcement have considered the possibility that the perpetrator of the Santa Rosa crimes also killed in Oregon, Washington State, Utah, and Colorado. Police have also looked into links with the Flat Tire Murders, which occurred in Southern Florida. In 1986, author Robert Graysmith published a list of forty-nine confirmed and possible Zodiac Killer victims. The list included the Santa Rosa victims and additional murders with some similarities. These included:
Elaine Louise Davis, aged 17, who disappeared on December 1, 1969, from her home in Walnut Creek, California. On December 19, the body of a young woman was discovered floating off Light House Point near Santa Cruz.
Leona LaRell Roberts, aged 16, whose nude body was found ten days before the winter solstice on the beach at Bolinas Lagoon in Marin County, on December 28, 1969. She had been kidnapped from her boyfriend's home on December 10. Her death was treated as a homicide, although the official cause was listed as "exposure" by the medical examiner.
Marie Antoinette Anstey, aged 23, who was kidnapped in Vallejo after being stunned by a blow to the head, and then drowned. Her body was recovered in rural Lake County on March 21, and an autopsy revealed traces of mescaline in her bloodstream.
Eva Lucienne Blau, aged 17, who was found clubbed to death and dumped in a roadside gully near Santa Rosa during the equinox on March 20, 1970. The medical examiner discovered drugs in her circulatory system. She was last seen on March 12, leaving Jack London Hall after telling friends that she was heading home.
The body of Davis was dumped off the coast of Santa Cruz, California, but not identified until 2001. Roberts was abducted from Rodeo and her body left on a beach near Bolinas. On the evening of December 3, 1969, 21-year-old college student Kathy Sosic accepted a ride from outside the Sonoma State College library to her home in nearby Cotati, California. The male driver turned away from Cotati and pulled out a handgun. Sosic escaped by jumping from the moving vehicle; she was not seriously injured.
The unapprehended Zodiac Killer is a suspect, due to similarities between an unknown symbol on his January 29, 1974 "Exorcist letter" to the San Francisco Chronicle, in which he claims 37 victims, and the Chinese characters on the missing soy barrel carried by Kim Allen, as well as stating an intention to vary his modus operandi in an earlier November 9, 1969 letter to the San Francisco Chronicle: "I shall no longer announce to anyone. when I comitt my murders, they shall look like routine robberies, killings of anger, + a few fake accidents, etc." (sic) Law enforcement reportedly ruled out Zodiac because the SRHM crimes appeared to have included sexual assaults and the (most likely and confirmed) Zodiac attacks did not.
Arthur Leigh Allen, of Vallejo, owned a mobile home at Sunset Trailer Park in Santa Rosa at the time of the murders. He had been fired from his Valley Springs Elementary School teaching position for suspected child molestation in 1968 and was a full-time student at Sonoma State University. Allen was arrested on September 27, 1974, by the Sonoma County Sheriff's Office and charged with child molestation in an unrelated case involving a young boy. He pleaded guilty on March 14, 1975, and was imprisoned at Atascadero State Hospital until late 1977. Robert Graysmith, in his book Zodiac Unmasked, claimed that a Sonoma County sheriff revealed that chipmunk hairs were found on all of the Santa Rosa Hitchhiker victims and that Allen had been collecting and studying the same species. Allen has been the main suspect in the Zodiac case since 1971.
After his capture for similar crimes in Washington, Colorado, Utah and Idaho, Ted Bundy was suspected in the murders. Bundy had spent time in neighboring Marin County, but was ruled out by a Sonoma County detective in the late-1970s and again in 1989. Detailed credit card records reveal that Bundy was in Washington State on the dates of some of the disappearances. A 2011 San Francisco Chronicle article noted that the dates of the receipts show that there would have been enough time for Bundy to drive to California and then drive back to Washington. Bundy was known to drive hundreds of miles to commit a murder and confessed to having murdered in California. Investigators also rule Bundy out because they believe that the killer likely lived in the Santa Rosa area and worked as a mail carrier or a public utility worker, who would have been familiar with the remote, rural locations where the victims were recovered.
Fredric Manalli, a 41-year-old Santa Rosa Junior College creative writing instructor, was suspected when, after his August 24, 1976, death in a head-on collision on Highway 12, sadomasochistic drawings he had created depicting a former student, Kim Wendy Allen, who was one of the victims, were discovered among his belongings. Investigators also reportedly found other obscene drawings Manalli had made involving other girls and himself. Manalli had one of Allen's backpacks in his possession which police then took into their custody.
Jack Alexander Bokin, a serial rapist who died in prison in December 2021 at age 78, has been suggested as another possible suspect by law enforcement after DNA testing linked him in 2022 to the 1996 murder of 32-year-old Michelle Veal. At the time of his death, Bokin was in prison for a series of rapes and for the 1997 attempted murder of a 19-year-old female victim. Bokin had a long history of criminal offenses and antisocial behavior beginning when he was a child, including violent sexual assault. His first criminal conviction for assault was in 1964, when he was 21. He served a prison sentence for that crime and also served five prison sentences for burglary at different times between 1970 and 1990.
The 2024 Max documentary The Truth About Jim explored the possibility that Jim Mordecai, a high school vocational agriculture teacher and part-time landscape designer, might have been responsible for the Santa Rosa murders. Mordecai, who died of cancer in 2008, had no known criminal record. His family had an isolated ranch in Sonoma County where he often spent time in the early 1970s. After his death, family members found a box of mismatched female jewellery among his effects, which belonged to no one in Mordecai's family. One item (a hoop earring with orange beads attached) matched the description of a piece of jewellery worn by one of the victims. However, the family did not keep any of the items. A DNA profile of Mordecai and other information regarding him was turned over to the Sonoma County Sheriff's Department in August 2022.
Murders of Kerry Graham and Francine Trimble
List of fugitives from justice who disappeared
List of serial killers in the United States
September 1975 Front Page Detective magazine
Antonin-Marie Moine (30 June 1796 – 18 March 1849) was a French romantic sculptor in the first half of the 19th century.
He began his career as a landscape painter, before becoming a sculptor. He obtained some success exhibiting at the Salon in the early 1830s. From 1835 to 1840, Antonin Moine worked, alongside Louis-Parfait Merlieux and Jean-Jacques Elshoecht (said Carle Elshoecht), on the creation of sculptures commissioned for the Fontaine des Mers and the Fontana dei Quattro Fiumi devoted to the beautification of the Place de la Concorde, as decided by the Mairie de Paris, its owner since 1828. The work was attributed to architect Jacques-Ignace Hittorff.
In 1836, Moine sculpted some of the three Néréides which are on each fountain.
Antonin Moine committed suicide in Paris on 18 March 1849.
A square was named after him in Saint-Étienne.
A portrait of Moine by Herminie Déhérain, exhibited at the Paris Salon of 1833, is today in the collection of the musée national des châteaux de Versailles et de Trianon.
Marek Heinz (born 4 August 1977) is a Czech assistant manager for Sigma Olomouc B since 2025 and a former professional footballer who played as a striker. Heinz was top scorer of the Czech First League in the 2003–04 season, concurrently celebrating the league championship with Baník Ostrava. His other Czech clubs included Sigma Olomouc, where he started his professional career, 1. FC Brno and 1. SC Znojmo. Heinz played in the domestic leagues of five other countries: Germany's Bundesliga, where he represented Hamburger SV, Arminia Bielefeld and Borussia Mönchengladbach; Turkey's Süper Lig, which he won with Galatasaray in 2006; Ligue 1 and Ligue 2 of France, playing for Saint-Étienne and Nantes; the Austrian Bundesliga, in which he played for Kapfenberger SV and lastly Hungary, playing for Ferencváros in the Nemzeti Bajnokság I.
Heinz made 30 appearances for the Czech Republic, scoring 5 goals in an international career which spanned from 2000 to 2006. He scored two goals in UEFA Euro 2004 in Portugal and played in his second major tournament at the 2006 FIFA World Cup in Germany.
As a youth player, Heinz played for such Czech football clubs as Lokomotiva Hodolany, Olomouc-Holice and Sigma MŽ Olomouc. Although he trained as a car mechanic and considered becoming involved in natural science, Heinz went into professional football, playing for Sigma Olomouc with a short loan spell at Lázně Bohdaneč before moving to Germany in 2000.
Heinz headed to German side Hamburger SV in 2000. A surplus to requirements under head coach Kurt Jara midway through the 2002–03 season, he joined Arminia Bielefeld for the remainder of the campaign with an option to make the move permanent if Bielefeld avoided relegation. Bielefeld were relegated from the Bundesliga after losing their final game of the season in May 2003.
Baník Ostrava signed Heinz from the Hamburg club ahead of the 2003–04 season. He made his debut for the club in July 2003, providing two assists in a win against České Budějovice. Heinz scored his first Baník goal in a 1–1 draw against Liberec just a week into the season, ultimately leading Baník to the Czech title in the 2003–04 Czech First League and finishing the season as the league's top goalscorer with 19 goals. He formed a partnership with Miroslav Matušovič which returned 29 goals for the club that season.
After Euro 2004 Heinz returned to Germany, signing for Borussia Mönchengladbach at the start of the 2004–05 season. He scored his first and ultimately only Bundesliga goal for Gladbach in a 3–1 victory against Werder Bremen. Heinz played 14 matches in the first half of the season but was demoted to the amateur reserve side in March 2005 after the club appointed Dick Advocaat as head coach mid-season. A proposed move back to the Czech Republic to play for Sparta Prague fell through the same month after the involved clubs were unable to agree on a transfer fee. He left Borussia Mönchengladbach in August 2005, having made 23 Bundesliga appearances and scored one goal.
In September 2005, Heinz joined Turkish side Galatasaray on a three-year contract. He scored his first goal for his new club in a 4–1 win over Trabzonspor in October, Following its victory in the 2005–06 Süper Lig, Heinz left the club on 31 August 2006 and became a free agent.
In September 2006, Heinz signed a one-year contract with French side Saint-Étienne to play under Czech head coach Ivan Hašek. In a 2–0 win against Lorient in early December, Heinz scored a left-footed free-kick from 18 metres, with the ball finishing in the goalkeeper's top-left corner. It was shortlisted as one of the five best goals of matchday 16. He scored 4 goals in 28 Ligue 1 matches for Saint-Étienne but left the club after Hašek was replaced as head coach by Laurent Roussey.
On 21 August 2007, Heinz signed with another French club Nantes to play in the 2007–08 Ligue 2. He scored in the third round of the 2007–08 Coupe de la Ligue against Monaco, although a 2–0 half time lead was not enough as Monaco secured the win and progression to the fourth round with three second-half goals. Heinz played a total of 16 league matches, scoring once, as Nantes achieved promotion to the French top flight.
On 30 September 2008, Heinz returned the Czech league, signing a two-year contract with Brno. He scored his first league goal for Brno with a header in a 2–0 win against Banik Ostrava on 22 February 2009. He left the club after a single season, having scored two league goals in 21 appearances.
On 29 June 2009 it was announced that Heinz had signed a one-year contract with Kapfenberger SV to play in the 2009–10 Austrian Football Bundesliga. He made his competitive debut for the club in a 1–0 home loss to Ried in July 2009. Heinz was suspended for three matches in February 2010 for being verbally abusive after a 4–3 loss against Austria Vienna. He left the club as his contract expired after the season.
Heinz moved to his fifth foreign country to play football in July 2010, signing a one-year deal with Hungarian side Ferencváros. He made his debut for the club in the opening game of the 2010–11 Nemzeti Bajnokság I season, a 2–1 win against Paks, scoring a follow-up shot after his initial shot was blocked. Heinz scored 7 goals in 25 league appearances for the club, receiving a first-half red card in a 6–0 Derbi loss against Újpest as well as another red card in his final match for the club, which was against Szombathelyi Haladás.
Heinz returned to Olomouc in 2011, signing a two-year contract. Despite playing 20 matches in his first season, Heinz played just seventeen minutes in one substitute appearance in the first half of his second season. In November 2012, manager Roman Pivarník announced Heinz was surplus to requirements and free to find another club.
He joined second league 1. SC Znojmo on loan in January 2013 for the rest of the season. In his league debut for Znojmo at the start of March 2013, Heinz scored a hat trick against Karvina in a 3–0 win. His opening goal came after 10 minutes with a successful shot from less than 20 metres from goal. In the 17th minute Heinz made it 2–0 with a curling shot over the goalkeeper's head and the scoring was complete in the 49th minute when he nutmegged the goalkeeper. On 23 March Znojmo defeated Bohemians 1905 2–0 with goals from Heinz and Radim Nepožitek, lifting the side to first place in the Second League table. Heinz contributed 8 goals in 12 league matches. helping Znojmo finish the season top of the league to win promotion to the Czech First League for the 2013–14 season. Znojmo became the third Czech First League club that employed Heinz.
In the 2013–14 season match played on 17 August he was one of two players, alongside fellow player Jan Kopic, to score twice in a 5–5 draw away at Jablonec. In September 2013, after Znojmo started with nine consecutive winless games, Heinz agreed to part ways with the club. He made eight appearances for Znojmo in the First League, all starts, being unavailable for selection once due to suspension. He later signed on loan for third-tier side HFK Olomouc, his former youth team, until the end of 2013.
Heinz played for his country at various age groups. He played for the under-20 (4 appearances without scoring) and the under-21 sides (17 matches, 6 goals). He took part in the 2000 UEFA European Under-21 Championship held in Slovakia, where the Czech side finished as runners-up after losing 2–1 to Italy in the final. Heinz provided the assist to Tomáš Došek in the 51st minute of the final, which made the score 1–1, although a free-kick from Italian player Andrea Pirlo in the 81st minute decided the game.
Heinz was part of the Czech squad that participated in the football tournament at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Australia. On 13 September he played in the opening group match against the United States, being fouled by Chad McCarty, which resulted in a penalty to the Czechs. Lukáš Došek converted the spot kick, equalising the game for the final score of 2–2. He was one of four forwards who started the match in Brisbane against Kuwait on 16 September, although he played in midfield. Heinz scored the opening goal of the game after just 64 seconds but Kuwait scored three second-half goals to ultimately register a 3–2 win. After receiving yellow cards in both of the first two matches, Heinz was unavailable for selection for the third group game against Cameroon, which the Czech team drew 1–1 and got eliminated from the tournament.
Heinz made his debut for the Czech Republic senior side on 16 August 2000 in a 1–0 loss against Slovenia. After his second appearance in 2001, more than two years passed before he was next called up to the national team squad by Karel Brückner in September 2003 ahead of a Euro 2004 qualification match against Austria, due to injuries to first-choice strikers Milan Baroš and Jan Koller. With qualification for the tournament already decided, Heinz had an opportunity to score in the seventh minute but his shot from 10 metres hit the post. He was however involved in the opening goal, passing to Pavel Nedvěd, who supplied the ball to Marek Jankulovski to open the scoring. The match finished 3–2 in the Czech Republic's favour. Heinz scored his first goal for the national team in a November 2003 friendly game against Canada, hitting the back of the net with the Czechs' second goal in a 5–1 win, although the stadium announcer incorrectly reported the goalscorer as Karel Poborský.
In June 2004 Heinz was one of four forwards selected by Karel Brückner for the Czech Republic squad for Euro 2004. At UEFA Euro 2004 held in Portugal the Czech Republic were drawn into Group D with Germany, the Netherlands and Latvia. In the first match, on 15 June against Latvia, the Czech Republic went into half time trailing by a single goal. Heinz, a second-half substitute for Zdeněk Grygera, scored the winning goal in the 85th minute after Milan Baroš had equalised twelve minutes prior. The game finished 2–1. The second match took place in Aveiro against the Netherlands. With the Netherlands taking a 2–0 lead early in the game, Heinz remained on the bench before making an appearance as a second-half substitute. The Czechs turned the game around with three goals in response to celebrate a 3–2 win. In the last group match against Germany, Czech head coach Karel Brückner made nine changes to his starting lineup. After Germany had opened the scoring, Heinz was felled by German opponent Philipp Lahm. He scored from the resultant direct free kick to level the scores. The Czech Republic went on to win the match 2–1, which was their eighth consecutive competitive victory.
The quarter final against Denmark was held on 27 June 2004. After a goalless first half, Jan Koller opened the scoring and Milan Baroš quickly scored two more goals. Heinz appeared as a second-half substitute for Baroš as the game finished in a 3–0 win. Heinz was an unused substitute in the semi final against Greece, which resulted in a Greece win decided by a silver goal, concluding Heinz's participation in the tournament.
At the 2006 FIFA World Cup in Germany, the Czech Republic were placed into Group E alongside the USA, Ghana and Italy. Heinz did not play in the first two matches, a 3–0 win against the United States and a 2–0 loss to Ghana. He took part in the final group stage match against Italy; with the Czech team reduced to 10 players after Jan Polák's dismissal, Heinz came on as a second-half substitute for Radoslav Kováč in another 2–0 loss, which eliminated the Czech side from the World Cup.
Heinz's next match after the World Cup was a friendly game in Prague against Denmark in November 2006. He played the whole of the second half as a substitute for David Jarolím, with the match finishing 1–1.
Sports advisor at Saint Etienne Claude Robin described Heinz as "a superb technician who delivers excellent passes". He was also known for scoring goals from direct free kicks.
Heinz worked with coaching Sigma Olomouc youth teams until July 2019, when he switched focus to training individual attacking players and being the head coach of the FK Šternberk youth team. As assistant coach of the Šternberk senior side, he was expelled from a Czech Fourth Division match against FC Vsetín in April 2025 after verbally abusing the referee among some controversial decisions. In June 2025, Heinz was appointed assistant coach at Sigma Olomouc B.
Heinz was born on 4 August 1977 to parents who both worked in collective farming. He grew up with his mother Agáta and two older sisters. He has two daughters with his former wife, Denisa.
Scores and results list Czech Republic's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Heinz goal.
Marek Heinz at National-Football-Teams.com
Marek Heinz at the Czech Republic Football Association (archived)
Marek Heinz at the Turkish Football Federation
Marek Heinz at the Czech Olympic Committee (in Czech)
Radio Delmare was a Dutch offshore pirate radio station that operated from 1978 to 1979. The project, led by Gerard van Dam, aimed to revive offshore broadcasting after the shutdown of Radio Veronica and Radio North Sea International. The team acquired the vessel MV "Aegir" in 1977, but faced technical difficulties and government raids. After the vessel's stranding, the station attempted to return in 1979 aboard MV "Martina", but ceased operations after three weeks.
The first broadcast was to have been aired on Monday 26 June 1978 but the Dutch Radio Control Office and police, already aware a radio ship was equipped, boarded the ship on Friday, June 23 at the Neherkade in The Hague's Laakkwartier district. They had been alerted by a man who did not want his son to take part in the plans to set sail for the North Sea in the next few days. Equipment was confiscated and the ship was made unseaworthy by taking away its anchor and steering wheel.
The enthusiasts bribed a lockmaster to slip away to the Rijn-Schiekanaal, sailing into open waters with food, oil and other provisions. In early July they entered the harbour at Maassluis, near Rotterdam with the name of the ship changed to "Flip". Two weeks later they sailed to Ostend and brought on board two Marconi transmitters formerly used by the Belgian colonial army in the Congo. Each of the transmitters had 3 kW of power. Damage during installation limited them to a few hundred Watts, and also the radio crystals were missing, which caused a very unstable frequency output with an unusual broad bandwidth providing a high spectral amplitude modulation. The studio contained two Revox A77 reel recorders, four FTM-spotmasters, two Thorens turntables, two AKG microphones and a mixer.
The station name changed to Radio Delmare with the theme tune "The Eve Of The War" by Jeff Wayne. Over 2000 listener reports in total were claimed from coastal and inland areas around the Netherlands and Belgium. The station aired old tapes from Radio Caroline and some non-stop music. These were live but did not contain much speech. The disc jockey for the first hour was René de Leeuw. The MV Aegir became stranded on 11 September 1978 as the improvised anchor failed at the first Force 6 wind of the season. During the scrapping of her wreck spare parts were gathered for the MV Mi Amigo on which it was planned to resume broadcasts of Radio Delmare. The MV Mi Amigo board technicians received a saved and badly needed second generator from Gerard van Dam, owner of the MV Aegir as well as the MV Aegir and the newly accessed vessel MV Scheveningen 54, which was for the time being used as a tender ship. Ronan O'Rahilly, operator of Radio Caroline on board of the MV Mi Amigo, however, refused to give up historical rights to the ship, so Van Dam had to change plans to revive Radio Delmare and the MV Martina was bought to be equipped as its next offshore radio ship. It broadcast for a three-week period during the summer of 1979.
Atsuko Hirayanagi (平栁 敦子, Hirayanagi Atsuko) is a Japanese-American filmmaker.
Born in Nagano to schoolteachers and raised in Chiba, Japan, Hirayanagi moved to the Los Angeles area in the early 1990s as a high school exchange student.
She graduated from San Francisco State University with a BA in theater arts. She went on to attend NYU Tisch School of the Arts and graduated with a MFA in film production.
While in graduate school, her second year project, Mo Ikkai, won the Grand Prix at the 2012 Short Shorts Film Festival in Asia.
Her thesis short film, Oh Lucy!, received a Tisch's First Prize Wasserman Award at the 2014 First Run Festival, and also won more than 25 awards around the globe, including prizes at Cannes Film Festival (2014), Sundance Film Festival (2015), and the Toronto International Film Festival (2014).
Her feature-length version of Oh Lucy! was a recipient of the 2016 Sundance/NHK Award. On June 14, 2017, she was named one of the ″20 Rising Women Directors You Need to Know″ by IndieWire., and was nominated at the 2018 Film Independent Spirit Awards for Best First Feature. The project was funded by Cathay Organisation CEO Meileen Cho.
Hirayanagi was invited to join the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in 2018.
On April 29, 2021, Hirayanagi was set to direct the film adaptation of A. Lee Martinez’s novel The Last Adventure of Constance Verity for Legendary Entertainment with Awkwafina set to star.
In March 2022, it was announced that Hirayanagi would serve as showrunner of the Amazon Prime Video original series Modern Love Tokyo.
Hirayanagi is a black belt in Kyokushin Karate, and came in 3rd place in the Los Angeles Cup Women's Category.
Atsuko currently resides in Noe Valley, San Francisco, CA.
The Do Not Disturb or (DND) function on most PBX or PABX systems prevents calls from ringing on an extension for which DND is activated. Some Do Not Disturb (DND) attributes include directing the call to a preassigned extension (like a secretary or assistant), busy signal, DND signal, or recorded message generated by the telephone switch. Some switches allow the call to go through to the extension but restrict the response to a visual indication. Some PBX systems allow the assignment of DND circumvention codes to supervisors.
The implementation of this feature is vendor-specific. In some cases, the ringer just does not ring and the called party is thus not alerted. Usually, though, the phone just acts as being busy. Depending on the infrastructure, the caller may end up on the called party's voice mailbox, sometimes after a certain delay.
Some special configurations combine DND with other features like call forwarding, where calls to a party with DND on are forwarded to another phone.
Mitel 3300 Integrated Communications Platform Archived 2007-02-21 at the Wayback Machine (page 15)
U.S. Patent 3651270: Message waiting and do-not-disturb arrangement
Nan Phinney (born 1945) is a retired American accelerator physicist at SLAC. She was program coordinator for the Stanford Linear Collider (SLC), the world's first linear collider. Her research interests are high energy colliders and linear colliders. She became an American Physical Society Fellow in 1993. Her last job title at SLAC was distinguished staff scientist.
Born in Chicago in 1945, Nan Phinney is the daughter of Thomas Ward Phinney, who trained as an electrical engineer, and Martha Louise (née Lawrence) Phinney. She is a granddaughter of photographer George R. Lawrence.
The family lived on the north side of Chicago, where she attended Catholic grammar school and Catholic girls' high school.
Phinney completed a Bachelor of Science in physics and astronomy in 1966 at Michigan State University. She earned an M.S. in 1968, and a Ph.D. in 1972, both degrees in high-energy physics at the State University of New York, Stony Brook. Her dissertation was Trident Production in Coulomb Field, advised by John (Jack) Smith.
From 1972 through 1980, Phinney held post-doc positions from École Polytechnique and the University of Oxford, working at CERN on high-energy particle physics experiments. Initially she worked on the hyperon experiment on the Proton Synchrotron, but for most of her time at CERN she worked with the CERN, Columbia, Oxford, Rockefeller group in IR-1 of the Intersecting Storage Rings. The group studied wide-angle scattering, and Phinney's work was primarily data acquisition.
In 1981 Phinney was one of the first physicists hired to work on the Stanford Linear Collider (SLC), the world's first linear collider. With technical expertise and leadership qualities, she became SLC program coordinator from 1990 to 1998. She led the effort "to make the accelerator perform — an enormous challenge that took constant effort", according to Burt Richter. Prof. David Burke said she "became an international spokesperson for the new technology as a result of her scientific expertise as well as her ability to talk to audiences ranging from scientists to government officials".
In 2004 Phinney was elected chair of the Division of the Physics of Beams executive committee of the American Physical Society. She has served on the second International Linear Collider Technical Review Committee as well as the U.S. Linear Collider Steering Group Accelerator Task Force and the United Kingdom Linear Collider Machine Advisory Committee. According to Richter, she has brought "her hard-won wisdom and experience on linear colliders to the worldwide linear collider design efforts".
1993 American Physical Society Fellow, cited "For her many contributions to the successful development and operation of the Stanford Linear Collider"
2003 Marsh O’Neill Award recipient, acknowledged for her "leadership qualities and technical ability" as program coordinator for the Stanford Linear Collider
Phinney, Nan (2013). "7.2 the Only Linear Collider Built so Far: The SLC". In Brüning, Oliver; Myers, Stephen (eds.). Accelerators and Colliders. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg. pp. 186–188. doi:10.1007/978-3-642-23053-0_17. ISBN 9789814436403.
Phinney, Nan (September 20, 2012), "SLC: The first linear collider", Challenges and Goals for Accelerators in the XXI Century, World Scientific, pp. 97–101, doi:10.1142/9789814436403_0005, ISBN 978-981-4436-39-7
Adolphsen, Chris; et al. (June 26, 2013). "The International Linear Collider Technical Design Report - Volume 3.I: Accelerator R&D in the Technical Design Phase". arXiv:1306.6353 [physics.acc-ph].
Adolphsen, Chris; et al. (June 26, 2013). "The International Linear Collider Technical Design Report - Volume 3.II: Accelerator Baseline Design". arXiv:1306.6328 [physics.acc-ph].
Phinney, Nan (2007). "ILC reference design report:Accelerator executive summary". ICFA Beam Dyn.Newslett. Retrieved May 15, 2021.
Phinney, Nan (2001). "Next linear collider design status". 18th International Conference on High-Energy Accelerators (HEACC 2001).
Phinney, Nan (October 2001). "SLC final performance and lessons". Linac. Proceedings, 20th International Conference, Linac 2000, Monterey, U.S., August 21–25, 2000.: 1, 2.
Phinney, N. (February 5, 1992). "SLC performance and plans". AIP Conference Proceedings. 272 (2): 1971–1978. Bibcode:1992AIPC..272.1971P. doi:10.1063/1.43471. ISSN 0094-243X.
Phinney, Nan (1994). "The Heart of a new machine". SLAC Beam Line. 24N2: 2.
Phinney, Nan (August 1992). "Review of SLC performance". Proceedings, 26th International Conference on High-energy Physics (ICHEP 92): Dallas, Texas: 1971–1978.
Phinney, Nan (1985). "Report on the SLC Control System" (PDF). IEEE Transactions on Nuclear Science. 32 (5): 2117–2119. Bibcode:1985ITNS...32.2117P. doi:10.1109/TNS.1985.4333834.
Oral history interview transcript with Nan Phinney on 16 July 2020, American Institute of Physics, Niels Bohr Library & Archives
Chattogram Collegiate School also known as Chittagong Collegiate School and College is a government educational institution in Chattogram, the southern port city in Bangladesh. It provides education from 5th to 12th grade. The school was established in 1836 and in 2016 celebrated its 180 years of establishment.
Chittagong Collegiate School was established as Chittagong Government School in 1836. The school was the first English medium high school in Chittagong. Its classes were held in a brick building constructed during the early years of British rule. The school was then shifted to a new location at the southern section of the market Sahib Hills. In 1886, the school was relocated to its present location at Collegiate School Road, North Nalapara, near the Chittagong Railway Station, and was named as Chittagong Collegiate School. Until the first decade of the twentieth century, the school was popularly known as the Entrance School.
In 2008 the college section was introduced and the government renamed the school Chittagong Collegiate School and College.
The main building of the institute is Academic Building-1 where the classes of school levels are held. There are nearly 21 classrooms in that red-brick building. The campus includes a mosque, several science labs and computer labs.
Abdullah-Al-Muti, first Bangladeshi to be awarded with the Kalinga Prize by UNESCO. He was a popular science communicator towards his audience of Bengali speaking children and teenagers.
Abdullah Al Noman,Former Vice chairman of Bangladesh Nationalist Party, one of the two most popular political parties of Bangladesh. Noman served as a member of parliament and ministry cabinet in several terms. He also served as the minister of live stock and fisheries.
Mezbah Uddin Rafi (Bengali: মেজবাহ উদ্দিন রাফি) is a Bangladeshi artificial intelligence (AI) researcher, ethicist, and humanitarian technologist known for his work on human-centered AI governance, emotional intelligence algorithms, and AI-driven educational frameworks. His research emphasizes ethical regulation, equitable technology access in the Global South, and AI applications for social impact
Abul Hayat, one of the leading pioneers of theatre & drama in independent Bangladesh. Hayat's decades long career of acting & directing has shaped the national drama industry in a pivotal way.
Amir Khasru Mahmud Chowdhury, current Minister of Finance and former Minister of Commerce.
Asif Iqbal (lyricist), founder of Gaanchill Music.
Ataur Rahman (actor), influential stage drama personality in Bangladesh. He has been awarded with Ekushey Padak & Independence Award for his cultural contributions.
Hossain Zillur Rahman, Bangladeshi academic, economist & policy maker. Former adviser to the Caretaker Government of Bangladesh.
Humayun Ahmed, renowned author & filmmaker, Ahmed was celebrated as the most influential cultural icon in post independence Bangladesh.
Jamal Nazrul Islam, Bangladeshi Cosmologist & Academician. Islam returned to Bangladesh to establish scientific advancement throughout his motherland, despite serving faculty in prestigious universities, such as- King's College, London, Institute of Astronomy, Cambridge, California Institute of Technology. Books authored by Islam are highly cited in universities worldwide.
Jamal Uddin Ahmad, Deputy Prime Minister of Bangladesh from 1977 to 1982.
M Harunur Rashid, former Director General of Bangla Academy.
MA Malek (journalist), Editor of Dainik Azadi. Malek was awarded with Ekushey Padak in 2022 for his contributions to journalism.
Mayeen Uddin Khan Badal, freedom fighter & former Member of Parliament.
Minhajul Abedin, former Bangladeshi cricketer.
Mohammad Ziauddin (army officer), retired Bangladeshi military officer. He is the recipient of Bir Uttom, the highest military award for living military personnel, for his prolific bravery in the liberation war of Bangladesh.
Mohit Ul Alam, former Vice Chancellor of Jatiya Kabi Kazi Nazrul Islam University.
Morshed Khan, former Minister of Foreign Affairs.
Mosharraf Hossain (politician, born 1943), senior Bangladesh Awami League politician.
Muhammad Afsarul Ameen, senior Bangladesh Awami League politician and physician. He served as a Minister of Prime & Mass Education.
Muhammad Yunus, only Bangladeshi to be awarded with the Nobel Prize. He pioneered the concept of Microcredit & Microfinance in economics. He was the Chief Adviser of the interim government of Bangladesh from 2024 to 2026.
Muhammed Zafar Iqbal, popular Bangladeshi science fiction writer. Iqbal has been part of popularizing STEM among the youth, such as, encouraging participations in math olympiad and more alike.
Mustafa Nur-Ul Islam, National Professor of Bangladesh.
Nabinchandra Sen, Bengali poet and writer. Sen is considered to be one of the greatest poets prior to the arrival of Rabindranath Tagore.
Niaz Murshed, Bangladeshi Grandmaster (chess).
Shahid Saber, writer & journalist. He was martyred during the onset of liberation war of 1971.
Zakir Husain (governor), Husain served as a Governor & Interior Minister of East Pakistan during the Ayub Khan regime. A street in Chattogram is named in his remembrance.
Media related to Chattogram Collegiate School at Wikimedia Commons
Central South University of Forestry and Technology (CSUFT; 中南林业科技大学), also known as Linkeda (林科大), is a full-time public university in Changsha, Hunan, China. It is sponsored by the Hunan Provincial People's Government and co-built by the provincial government and the National Forestry and Grassland Administration. The university traces its origins to forestry and agricultural institutions established in 1911, and today is a comprehensive research university with a traditional strength in forestry and ecological disciplines alongside engineering, science, management, economics, law, literature and arts. CSUFT is one of the earliest institutions in Hunan to enroll graduate students after the restoration of China’s graduate education system, the first provincial university in Hunan to establish a graduate school, and a university with the right to recommend outstanding undergraduates for exemption from entrance examinations to graduate programs. The university has been selected for several national and provincial initiatives, including Midwestern Higher Education Infrastructure Construction Project, the Characteristic Key Disciplines Program, the State Construction High-Level University Public Graduate Program, the first cohort of pilot universities in the Excellent Agricultural and Forestry Talents Education and Training Program, and the Hunan “2011 Plan”. It is designated as Hunan Province's “Double First-Class Construction institution.
CSUFT’s roots can be traced to 1911, when the Guangdong Provincial Agricultural and Forestry Experiment Station and its attached training institute for agricultural and forestry teachers were established. In 1958, the Hunan Provincial People's Committee approved the creation of Hunan Forestry College (湖南林学院).
In 1963, Hunan Forestry College merged with the Department of Forestry of South China Agricultural College to form Central South Forestry College (中南林学院) in Guangzhou.
In 1974, the college moved back to Hunan and operated in Fushuiwan (now Dajiangkou Town) in Xupu County, western Hunan, where the former campus site is still preserved. In 1978, the State Council of the People's Republic of China approved the restoration of the name "Central South Forestry College". In the early 1980s, the college began constructing a new campus on the outskirts of Zhuzhou, and by 1985 the institution had fully relocated to Zhuzhou.
In the early 2000s, several institutions, including Hunan Forestry School, Hunan Forestry Technical School, Hunan Agricultural Machinery Research Institute and Hunan Economic Management Cadre College, were successively merged into the university. The main body of the university moved from Zhuzhou to Changsha in 2003.
In December 2005, the Ministry of Education approved the change of name from Central South Forestry College to Central South University of Forestry and Technology.
The main campus of CSUFT is located on Shaoshan South Road in Tianxin District, Changsha, near the Hunan Academy of Forestry, the railway campus of Central South University, and Tiedao Xueyuan station on Changsha Metro Line 1. The campus lies in a subtropical monsoon climate zone, with abundant rainfall in spring, hot and relatively dry summers and autumns, and short winters. The terrain is dominated by small hills, and the teaching, residential and recreation areas are heavily planted with trees and greenery.
The university also operates the Lutou Experimental Forest Farm in Pingjiang County, Yueyang, which provides a base for teaching and field research in forestry and related disciplines.
CSUFT is a comprehensive university with a disciplinary structure centered on agriculture and forestry, and coordinated development in engineering, science, management, economics, law, literature, and arts. The university has six first-level doctoral degree–granting disciplines, twenty first-level academic master’s disciplines, and sixteen professional master’s degree categories, and it offers 80 undergraduate majors. The university has established a complete degree system spanning bachelor's, master's and doctoral education.
Several disciplines are considered strong within China’s higher-education system. CSUFT hosts national and ministerial key disciplines and key construction disciplines under the National Forestry and Grassland Administration and Hunan Province. Agricultural science, engineering, and environmental ecology at CSUFT have entered the top 1 % globally according to Essential Science Indicators. In addition to its traditional strengths in agriculture, forestry and biological sciences, programs such as English, mechanical design and manufacturing, and computer science have also received recognition from the Ministry of Education.
Historically, Central South Forestry College had only two departments and six specialties in 1976. After the restoration of the national college entrance examination in 1977, the number of departments and majors increased steadily. As of the early 2020s, CSUFT has more than twenty teaching units, including the College of Forestry, College of Life Science and Technology, College of Materials Science and Engineering, College of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering, College of Landscape Architecture, College of Computer and Information Engineering, Business School, School of Economics, School of Law, School of Foreign Languages, School of Physical Education, School of Tourism, Music School, and Bangor College (a joint China–foreign institute), among others.
As of 2022, CSUFT has more than 2,300 staff members, including over 960 with senior professional titles. The university counts one academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, four double-appointed academicians, and a number of scholars selected for national and provincial talent programs, such as Changjiang Scholars, the “Ten Thousand Talents Program”, National Science Fund for Excellent Young Scholars (Excellent Young Scientists Fund), National Forestry and Grassland Science and Technology Innovation Talent, “Furong Scholar”, Hunan Scientific and Technological Leading Talent and Hunan Think Tank Leading Talent, among others.
The university has established a number of research institutions and platforms in forestry, bamboo and wood industries, biomass materials and related areas. These include the Hunan Engineering Research Center for Bamboo Industry, the Hunan Engineering Technology Research Center for Bamboo and Wood Processing, the Hunan Provincial Key Laboratory of Biomass Materials and Green Conversion Technology, and the National–Local Joint Engineering Research Center for Green Processing Technology of Agricultural and Forestry Biomass, among others. Research conducted at CSUFT has contributed to areas such as Camellia oleifera cultivation and disease control and the development of China’s bamboo and wood industries. In earlier decades, research at Central South Forestry College received national and provincial science and technology awards for work on pine resin extraction, wood-based panels and related fields.
The university library was established around the time of the founding of the institution. By 2022, the library held approximately 2.486 million printed volumes, 60 literature databases, 2.065 million e-books, about 51,000 electronic journals (totaling some 963,000 volumes), and roughly 11.554 million electronic theses and dissertations.
CSUFT sponsors several academic journals, including Journal of Central South University of Forestry and Technology, Economic Forest Research (经济林研究) and Furniture & Interior Design (家具与室内装饰). Economic Forest Research is regarded as the first comprehensive scientific and technical journal on economic forest species in mainland China. Furniture & Interior Design, founded in 1994, is the official journal of the Design Committee of the China National Furniture Association and publishes research and commentary on furniture and interior design, as well as related cultural and technological topics.
Tao Zhu (陶铸), a prominent leader of the Chinese Communist Party and the People's Republic of China, played a role in defining the university’s development direction in its early years; he is commemorated on campus, including a plaza named in his honor.
The university motto is “求是求新，树木树人” (“Seek truth and innovation; nurture trees and people”), reflecting its emphasis on both scientific rigor and the cultivation of forestry professionals. The official school song is titled 《科技栋梁之歌》 (“Song of the Pillars of Science and Technology”).
CSUFT has developed a number of international collaborations in teaching and research. In October 2013, the Ministry of Education approved the establishment of Bangor College, a joint institute of Central South University of Forestry and Technology and Bangor University in the United Kingdom, which is the first sino-foreign cooperative educational institution in Hunan Province. The college imports Bangor’s strengths in areas such as forestry and environmental sciences and uses English-medium instruction to train internationally oriented graduates; students can also use this platform to pursue further study abroad in the UK.
The university has also participated in the “Human Resource Development Project in Hunan Province” supported by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and has established academic cooperation with institutions such as the University of Toyama in Japan. Faculty and students regularly undertake study visits and joint research in Japan in cooperation with universities and enterprises.
In the 21st century, CSUFT has responded to the national “Belt and Road Initiative” by deepening cooperation with participating countries, recruiting international students and promoting the transfer of scientific and technological achievements abroad. The university has taken part in greening work at Gwadar Port in Pakistan and in the construction of a Belt and Road–related key laboratory for tropical and arid economic plants, helping to promote economic forest development in arid regions and enhancing its international influence.
Bangor College CSUFT – Bangor University Archived 2023-03-09 at the Wayback Machine (in English)
Nicholas James Patterson (born 9 June 1947)
is a mathematician working as a staff scientist at the Broad Institute with notable contributions to the area of computational genomics.
His work has appeared in scientific journals such as Nature, Science and Nature Genetics.
His research has brought a better understanding of early human migrations.
He is among the group of scientists who have sequenced the Neanderthal genome in 2010.
This was followed by the sequencing of a much higher quality Neanderthal genome, where the subject was from the Altai Mountains, in 2014.
These studies have uncovered some unexpected facts about the interbreeding between archaic and modern humans.
Patterson was an only child who grew up in the Bayswater section of central London. Patterson received his B.A. and Ph.D. in mathematics at Cambridge University. His doctoral advisor was John G. Thompson. He initially worked for the British code-breaking agency GCHQ and the Center for Communications Research in Princeton.
Following this cryptology work, Patterson worked at the quantitative trading firm Renaissance Technologies.
In 2001, Patterson joined the Center for Genome Research at MIT, the Whitehead Institute. He briefly worked on gene expression data applied to cancer before switching to the study of human genetics.
In 2012, Patterson developed ADMIXTOOLS, a software package written in C that is currently widely used by population geneticists.
Nick Patterson was a child chess prodigy. He won the Irish Chess Championship in 1969. In a long game in the Chess Olympiad of Siegen in 1970, where he played top board for Ireland, he met the Danish grandmaster Bent Larsen, who was one of the top 10 players in the world at the time, and managed to make a draw as black after 93 moves.
Nick Patterson publications indexed by Google Scholar
Nick Patterson at the Mathematics Genealogy Project
Nick Patterson player profile and games at Chessgames.com
Bittersweet Demons is the fifth studio album by Australian garage rock band the Murlocs, released on 25 June 2021 by Flightless Records. The album has been described as garage rock, glam rock, power pop, and garage soul.
The album is about the "people who leave a profound imprint on our lives". In general, the album has been noted for being highly reflective on human nature. When asked about this, frontman Ambrose Kenny-Smith stated:The whole concept for this record was to try and write about my family, friends and any other old acquaintances that made an impact on me throughout my life. I moved three times growing up so each song reflects on different parts of that journey. It doesn’t get much more personal than this! I hope everyone feels at just as much at peace as I do when listening to it.
Writing for Trouble Juice, Josseph Massaro enjoyed the record, calling the soundscapes on the record Harry Nilsson-like and how the record revitalises the band's fuzzy and distorted stylings. Carmine Basilicata of Pancakes and Whiskey also enjoyed the record, feeling that it was a breath of fresh air "in which every song sounds like the one that came before it". He also stated that the record would fit in with bands such as the Strokes and Yeah Yeah Yeahs, seeing the album being played on a "modern college radio station". He went on to mention a possible Rolling Stones influence. Post-Trash's Conor Lochrie also enjoyed the album, stating that it "courses on a long and winding path, each turn infectious and melodious. It's a soulful and rowdy record, rollicking and ballsy". Christopher Anthony of The Fire Note stated that the entire record gave a "memorable foot tapping pace" and also said the cohesion and experience of the record elevates it to one of the best by the band.
Ambrose Kenny-Smith: lead vocals, harmonica, acoustic guitar, keyboards, piano, percussion
Callum Shortal: lead guitar, rhythm guitar, twelve-string guitar
Cook Craig: bass guitar; keyboards and wine glasses on “No Self Control”
Tim Karmouche: keyboards, synthesizer, piano
Matt Blach: drums, percussion, backing vocals
John Lee: mellotron and percussion on “Misinterpreted”
Sam Joseph: pedal steel guitar on “Eating At You”
Timi Dunn: recording except for “Illuminate the Shade” & “Skyrocket”
Stu Mackenzie: recording on “Illuminate the Shade” & “Skyrocket”
Sam Joseph: additional recording on “Francesca”, “Bittersweet Demons” & “Eating At You”
Louise Kenny, Damien Shortal, Christine Hergstrom, Deborah Karmouche, Leonie Blach (the members' mothers): baby photography
Miandarreh (Persian: ميان دره, also Romanized as Mīāndarreh) is a village situated in Kharaqan-e Sharqi Rural District, Abgarm District, Avaj County, Qazvin Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 11, in 5 families.
Lee Ward is a Canadian academic currently teaching political science at Baylor University in Waco, Texas, and formerly Alpha Sigma Nu Distinguished Professor of Campion College at the University of Regina. He is an associate professor of political studies. His key research interests are the history of political philosophy and American political thought.
He first achieved a Bachelor of Arts from the University of Toronto. He went on to achieve a master's degree from Brock University and, finally, a PhD. from Fordham University
He is married to Ann Ward, a professor of philosophy and political studies at the University of Regina.
He has contributed to both the Canadian Journal of Political Science and the American Journal of Political Science. Most recently, he published the political research work "John Locke and Modern Life". He has also recently coedited "The Ashgate Research Companion to Federalism" with his wife Ann. Other works include "The Relation between Politics and Philosophy in Plato's Apology of Socrates", "Nobility and Necessity: The Problem of Courage in Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics", and "Montesquieu on Federalism and Anglo-Gothic Constitutionalism".
Natural Right and Political Philosophy: Essays in Honor of Catherine and Michael Zuckert. (Co-edited with Ann Ward). South Bend, IN: University of Notre Dame Press, 2013.
John Locke and Modern Life. Cambridge and New York: Cambridge University Press, 2010.
The Ashgate Research Companion to Federalism. Aldershot, UK: Ashgate Publishing Co., 2009. (Co-edited with Ann Ward)
The Politics of Liberty in England and Revolutionary America. Cambridge and New York: Cambridge University Press, 2004.
https://www.baylor.edu/political_science/index.php?id=946588
Lahore Conspiracy Case trial (26 April – 13 September, 1915), in the aftermath of the Ghadar conspiracy
Lahore Conspiracy Case (10 July, 1929 – 7 October, 1930) outlined in Bhagat Singh § Hunger strike and Lahore conspiracy case
I Am Greta is a 2020 internationally co-produced documentary film directed by Nathan Grossman, following climate change activist Greta Thunberg. The film had its world premiere at the 77th Venice International Film Festival on 3 September 2020, and was released on Hulu on 13 November 2020.
In December 2019, it was announced Nathan Grossman would direct the film documenting Greta Thunberg, with Hulu distributing.
I Am Greta had its world premiere at the 77th Venice International Film Festival on 3 September 2020. It also screened at the Toronto International Film Festival on 11 September 2020 and at the Filmfest Hamburg on 3 October 2020. The film was released in the United Kingdom and Germany on 16 October 2020 by Dogwoof and Filmwelt. It was released in the United States on 13 November 2020.
On the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 79% based on 82 reviews, with an average rating of 7/10. The website's critics consensus reads, "Audiences might not learn anything new from I Am Greta, but its stirring chronicle of the young activist's efforts is inspiring." On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 69 out of 100, based on 20 critics, indicating "generally favorable" reviews.
Marlon Brando: Hollywood Rebel is a 2024 nonfiction book by Burt Kearns that discusses the continuing cultural influence of the actor and activist Marlon Brando.
Donald Liebenson wrote in The Saturday Evening Post:Kearns is usually drawn to cultural figures who fly under the radar (his last book was Lawrence Tierney: Hollywood’s Real Life Tough Guy). That’s not Brando, about whom much has been written. But Kearns is also drawn to cultural outliers, and Brando profoundly changed the art of acting (even if he was dismissive in interviews about his own profession). The challenge, Kearns told The Saturday Evening Post, was to find a fresh angle on this much chronicled artist enshrined in myth and legend. Marlon Brando: Hollywood Rebel is not another biography, but more an examination of Brando’s enduring influence 100 years after his birth and 20 years after his death.Writing in the Los Angeles Times, Chris Vognar called the book “a worthy addition to the Brando bookshelf, largely because the author picks an idea and never loses sight of it, even as he fans across multiple disciplines to explore the idea. This is a book about how one facet of one man captured in one image from one film can send ripples through the world.”
Library Journal called the book “an entertaining and enlightening study of Brando’s impressive influence.”
Cedar Creek is a small rural locality 29 kilometres (18 mi) west of Cessnock in the Hunter Region of New South Wales, Australia. In 2016 the population was 33 people and the median age was 44.
Some holiday accommodation is situated in the area for visitors to nearby vineyards.
The Cedar Creek, a perennial stream of the Hunter River catchment runs through the locality.
Harrington Talents is a film production company located in the City Island area of the Bronx. The company was founded by three childhood friends: Frank Mosca serves as the company's head producer, Stephen Franciosa Jr. works as the director, chief editor, and technical director, and John Morena works as a creative director and art designer.
Straight Outta Puerto Rico: Reggaeton's Rough Road to Glory
Spot On is a commercial production division of Harrington Talents. It was established in 2009 as the influx of demand for commercial, industrial, and viral productions rose for Harrington. Owners Frank Mosca and Stephen Franciosa Jr. felt it necessary to establish a subsidiary that solely dealt with commercial and promotional production.
Larry The Cable Guy: A Sleeve is a Terrible Thing to Waste was done for the History Channel to promote of Larry's show Only in America with Larry the Cable Guy.
HCG Platinum with Carmen Electra was an infomercial done for the weight loss supplement.
In 2011, Spot On worked on a public service announcement (PSA) entitled Not Acceptable done for the Spread the Word to End the Word campaign. It was a controversial treatment that advocated removing the word "retard" from use as a personal description. It shows people of many backgrounds expressing the unacceptable nature behind many derogatory words. The spot culminates with Jane Lynch and Lauren Potter of Fox Television's GLEE imploring everyone to remove the word from everyday language. It has garnered support from the Special Olympics, Best Buddies, the NAACP, the Anti Defamation League, GLAAD, and many other organizations.
Angelo Angeli (20 August 1864 – 31 May 1931) was an Italian chemist. Angeli's salt and the Angeli–Rimini reaction are named after him.
Angeli studied in Padua, where he met the chemist Giacomo Luigi Ciamician. When Ciamician moved to a new appointment in Bologna, he chose Angeli to work as his assistant, even before Angeli had graduated. In 1891, Angeli was awarded his doctorate in chemistry at Bologna. In 1893, he became a lecturer in Bologna, and in 1895, he became a professor. In 1894, he worked briefly in Munich with Adolf von Baeyer, learning medicinal chemistry. In 1897, he moved to the University of Palermo where he became Professor of Pharmaceutical Chemistry.
In 1913, Angeli became director of the Pharmacy School in Florence. In 1915, he became Professor of Organic Chemistry at the University of Florence (Istituto di Studi Superiori), a position that was created specifically for him.
Angeli focused on nitrogen compounds. He investigated the structure of hydrazoic acid, synthesised nitrohydroxylamine (1894), and discovered the nitroxyl radical. The Angeli-Rimini reaction (1896) for the detection of aldehydes was named after him and his student Enrico Rimini. He discovered sodium trioxodinitrate, which is known as Angeli's salt. He confirmed the structure of the camphor which had been by proposed by Julius Bredt in 1893.
He was a member of the Accademia dei Lincei, the Royal Society of Sciences in Uppsala (1919) and the Bavarian Academy of Sciences (1928) and an honorary member of the German Chemical Society.
A. Binz, H. Leuchs (1931). "Sitzung vom 15. Juni 1931". Chemische Berichte. 64 (7): A129–A132. doi:10.1002/cber.19310640765.
"The chemistry in Florence between 19th and 20th century". Archived from the original on 15 May 2009. Retrieved 26 June 2008.
"ANGELO ANGELI (1864-1931): LO SCIENZIATO TIMIDO" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 5 June 2011.
Paolocci, Nazareno; Wink, David A. (May 2009). "The shy Angeli and his elusive creature: the HNO route to vasodilation". American Journal of Physiology. Heart and Circulatory Physiology. 296 (5): H1217–H1220. doi:10.1152/ajpheart.00243.2009. ISSN 0363-6135. PMC 2685361.
Rasmussen, Seth C. (July 2020). "Conjugated and Conducting Organic Polymers: The First 150 Years". ChemPlusChem. 85 (7): 1412–1429. doi:10.1002/cplu.202000325. ISSN 2192-6506.
The Mindless Ones are fictional monsters appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Their first appearance was in Strange Tales #127 (Dec. 1964).
The Mindless Ones are extra-dimensional creatures who are summoned via magic to do the bidding of others and have no will of their own. They are commonly associated with Dormammu, who employs them as minions.
The Mindless Ones first appeared in Strange Tales #127 (Dec. 1964), and were created by Stan Lee and Steve Ditko.
The Mindless Ones have also appeared in Darkhawk #19-20 (Sept.–Oct. 1992), Sleepwalker #17 (Oct. 1992), Doctor Strange, Sorcerer Supreme #82 (Oct. 1995), Marvel Boy vol. 2, #5-6 (Dec. 2000, March 2001), Fantastic Four #70 (Aug. 2003), The Amazing Spider-Man vol. 2 #57-#58 (Nov. 2003), The Amazing Spider-Man #500 (Dec. 2003), and Nextwave: Agents of H.A.T.E. #7-8 (Nov. 2006), among other comics.
Long ago, the wizard King Olnar sat on the throne of the Dark Dimension. He is visited by Umar and Dormammu, siblings of a race of magical energy beings called the Faltine. Olnar merges the Mindless Ones' home dimension with the Dark Dimension. They rampage throughout the lands, killing many, including Olnar, and almost killing Umar and Dormammu. The siblings create a barrier to keep them contained.
The Mindless Ones are most often seen in the employ of Dormammu, who develops a limited ability to control their actions. They have also been utilized by others such as Doctor Doom, Doctor Midas (in Marvel Boy) and a fellow Faltine named Rorkannu (in Nextwave: Agents of H.A.T.E.).
Doctor Doom uses them after gaining high levels of magical power via a deal with demonic entities. The Mindless Ones are utilized to beat on Ben Grimm, a member of the Fantastic Four, in a test of his durability.
When Spider-Man is banished to the Dark Dimension by a brainwashed Portal, he is attacked by a group of Mindless Ones. To rescue him, Darkhawk and Sleepwalker battle Toad's Brotherhood of Mutants and break Sauron's control over Portal so they could retrieve Spider-Man. A gang of Mindless Ones follow Spider-Man through the portal leading back to Earth, but the three heroes beat them back through the gateway, which is sealed by Portal.
In another separate incident, the Mindless Ones invade and destroy much of Times Square. A force that consists of Spider-Man, Doctor Strange, Cyclops, Thor, Iron Man, and the Fantastic Four help stop them, mainly by creating barriers. The Mindless Ones are temporarily defeated when Mister Fantastic creates a machine that manipulates their magical energy, drawing them back to where they came from. This, inadvertently summons Dormammu, who battles Doctor Strange. One of the Mindless Ones punches Spider-Man, displacing him in time. After Spider-Man returns to the present, Strange banishes the Mindless Ones, leaving Times Square damaged but intact.
Rorkannu, who physically resembles Dormammu and claims to be lord of the Dark Dimension, is stated to control a group of Mindless Ones. Emerging from a portal in a public restroom, they rampage through a small Colorado town, killing everyone they see, then wearing their clothing and behaving like them.
The group known as Nextwave kills many of the Mindless Ones. Rorkannu, in a monologue, reveals he is summoning the army because he feels their lack of distinguishing features and similar temperaments make them suitable to replace the human race. His lair is discovered by the hero known as the 'Captain'. His summoning circle is destroyed. Rorkannu is severely beaten and left to an uncertain fate.
The Mindless Ones appeared in an issue of Cable & Deadpool in which Deadpool and Bob, Agent of Hydra encounter them in their own dimension. The two are being manipulated by Doctor Strange. The Mindless Ones alternately attack and worship the two protagonists, evidently mistaking the light from a glow stick for a magical power and revering whoever it seemed to be emanating from. Deadpool and Bob end up causing the deaths of several Mindless Ones as a needed sacrifice to close down a magical catastrophe threatening innocent lives.
Plokta, a Duke of Hell, decides to conquer the world exponentially from a tower block in Birmingham. He used the collected magical energy of people captured within its rooms to create an army of Mindless Ones, but was eventually stopped by Captain Britain and MI13. Plokta is revealed to be the original creator of the Mindless Ones and was responsible for them within the hierarchy of Hell.
The Mindless Ones are used to mine Neutron Stars and many other ultra-dense gravity sites. They rebelled against their slave masters and began manufacturing a drug called "Krush" from the surface of Neutron Stars. They are members of the Black Hole Sons and it seems they are led by a being called The Mind who is currently held prisoner in a Nova Corps ship.
During the "Original Sin"' storyline, a Mindless One was wrecking New York and smacking the Thing around. Spider-Man shows up to give Thing a hand. Spider-Man recognizes the Mindless One and realizes that they are not supposed to be telepathic. The Mindless One screams in agony over the things he has seen and the things he has done. Thing realizes he is wielding the Ultimate Nullifier and tries to talk the Mindless One down. However, it does not work and the Mindless shoots himself with it. By this time, Nick Fury and the Avengers arrive. Captain America wants the Ultimate Nullifier left alone until it is contained and Fury declares the battle zone a murder scene. Elsewhere, a group of villains realize the other Mindless Ones are evolving.
Doctor Strange later encountered a Mindless One known as the Mindful One. It is a servant of Isaac Newton, who enhanced it to serve him. After some adventures, the Mindful One moves in with Doctor Strange. In Strange Academy, the Mindful One and several sentient Mindless Ones join the eponymous academy as teachers.
The Mindless Ones are capable of firing energy blasts from their eyes. They are superhumanly strong and durable, although their exact power levels vary between appearances.
The Mindless Ones appear in The Super Hero Squad Show episode "Enter Dormammu".
The Mindless Ones appear in Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H..
The Mindless Ones appear in the Ultimate Spider-Man episode "Cloak and Dagger".
The Mindless Ones appear in Avengers Assemble.
The Mindless Ones appear in Marvel: Avengers Alliance.
Character biography of Dormammu including info on Mindless Ones
Charlton Center Historic District is an historic district roughly on Main Street from Mugget Hill Road to Masonic Home Road and adjacent roads in Charlton, Massachusetts. The district, which encompasses the historic center of the town, includes the first architect-designed building in the center, the Shingle style Overlook Hotel designed by Worcester architect George H. Clemence, as well as the 1905 Colonial Revival Town Hall designed by Frost, Briggs & Chamberlain. The town hall site is also home to a number of memorials to the town's military.
The district also features various Federal and Gothic Revival houses, and was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1995.
National Register of Historic Places listings in Worcester County, Massachusetts
Pseudicius procerus is a species of jumping spider in the genus Pseudicius that ilves in South Africa. The spider was first defined in 2018 by Wanda Wesołowska and Charles Haddad. The spider is small, with a cephalothorax between 1.6 and 2.0 mm (0.063 and 0.079 in) long and an abdomen between 1.8 and 2.04 mm (0.071 and 0.080 in) long. It is dark brown with a distinctive pattern on the abdomen. The male has a lattice-like design of white stripes and the female has three stripes, the rearmost broken in chevrons. The male has stout brown legs while the female has whitish-yellow, except the front legs, which are dark brown, longer and thicker. The species is similar to the related Pseudicius matabelensis but differs in its copulatory organs. The female has two pockets at the front of the epigyne and long seminal ducts leading to elongated spermathecae. The male has a very long curved tibial apophysis, or spike, and a medium-sized embolus that is attached to the tegulum.
Pseudicius procerus is a jumping spider that was first described by the Polish arachnologist Wanda Wesołowska and Charles Haddad in 2011. It was one of more than 500 species that Wesołowska identified in her career, making her one of the most prolific in the discipline. They allocated the species to the genus Pseudicius, first raised by Eugène Simon in 1885. The genus name is related to two Greek words that can be translated false and honest. The genus was provisionally placed alongside Icius that, despite looking superficially similar, has a different etymology. Indeed, Ekaterina Andreeva, Stefania Hęciak and Jerzy Prószyński looked to combine the genera in 1984. The two genera have similar spermathecal structure but work by Wayne Maddison in 1987 demonstrated that they have very different DNA. The two genera were placed in the tribe Heliophaninae alongside Afraflacilla and Marchena.The tribe is ubiquitous across most continents of the world. Maddison renamed the tribe Chrysillini in 2015. The tribe is a member of the clade Saltafresia within the subfamily Salticoida. A year later, in 2016, Jerzy Prószyński allocated the genus to the Pseudiciines group of genera, which was named after the genus. Marchena is a member of the group, while Icius is not. They have flattened and elongated body and a characteristic colour pattern. The species name is derived from a Latin word that can be translated longer or elongate.
Pseudicius procerus is a small spider. The male has a cephalothorax that is between 1.8 and 2.0 mm (0.071 and 0.079 in) long and between 1.3 and 1.4 mm (0.051 and 0.055 in) wide. The carapace is oval and flat, dark brown apart from a patch of white hairs in the very middle and black-lined white streaks on the sides, with a covering of delicate colourless hairs. There is a streak in the middle It has a black eye field with long thin bristles around the eyes themselves. The spider has a low clypeus covered in white hairs. The abdomen is between 1.8 and 2.0 mm (0.071 and 0.079 in) long and between 1.2 and 1.3 mm (0.047 and 0.051 in) wide. It is dark brown and ovoid with two a lattice-like pattern of white stripes running down the middle crossed by three other white stripes running from side to side, one at the very front, another in the middle and the last near the rear. The underside is yellowish-brown and the spinnerets are dark. The chelicerae are dark brown while the labium and sternum are light brown. The legs are brown and a sparse covering of very long brown hairs. The forelegs are longer, thicker and darker. The spider has row of stiff bristles below the eye field and short bristles on its femur that it uses to stridulate. The pedipalps are brown. There is a single very long, pointed and slightly curved tibial apophysis, and a medium-sized embolus that joins to the ovsl tegulum.
The female is similar to the male. The carapace is approximately the same size, measuring typically 1.6 mm (0.063 in) long and 1.2 mm (0.047 in) wide. It is generally lighter, particularly to the rear, with a more indistinct pattern. The abdomen is typically 2.04 mm (0.080 in) long and 1.3 mm (0.051 in) wide. It has similarly dark brown with a lighter pattern. The design is different to the male. Instead of two stripes down the middle there is a vague stripe to the rear while the lateral stripes are more distinct and the rearmost stripe is broken so that it looks more like chevrons. The underside is light. The spinnerets are greyish and the legs, apart from the brown front legs, are whitish-yellow. The epigyne has two pockets to the front and copulatory openings to the rear. The spider has long looping insemination ducts that lead to elongated spermathecae that lie longwise at the rear of the epigyne.
The species is similar to Pseudicius matabelensis but differs in the design of its copulatory organs. The male can be distinguished by the shape of the spike on the palpal tibia, longer embolus and more oval palpal bulb. The female has longer and broader seminal ducts.
Pseudicius spiders can be found across Afro-Eurasia and the Eastern hemisphere. Pseudicius procerus is endemic to South Africa and Zimbabwe. The holotype was found near Kakamas in Northern Cape during 2017. It is a tree-dwelling spider that lives in Nama Karoo habitats. It particularly can be found in small shrubs and bushes.
The 2021–22 Hsinchu JKO Lioneers season was the franchise's 2nd season, its second season in the P. LEAGUE+ (PLG), its 2nd in Hsinchu County. The Lioneers are coached by Lin Kuan-Lun in his second year as head coach.
Theodor Obrietan (2 December 1927 – 11 December 2004) was an Austrian rower. He competed in the men's coxed four event at the 1948 Summer Olympics. Obrietan died in Klagenfurt on 11 December 2004, at the age of 77.
The Sesquicentennial March (Spanish: Marcha Sesquicentenario) is a well-known Peruvian march, composed by the Peruvian composer Jaime Díaz Orihuela (Arequipa, 1927-2020). The march, winner of a national contest for military music in celebration of the sesquicentennial of national independence in 1971, represents a grand combination of Andean sentiment and a pronounced martial theme. It is one of the more popular marches among those performed in parades and ceremonies in Peru.
Scot Loeffler (born November 1, 1974) is an American college football coach and former player who was most recently the quarterbacks coach for the Philadelphia Eagles of the National Football League (NFL). Prior to that, he was the head coach at Bowling Green State University. He formerly served as offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach at Boston College Virginia Tech, having previously held the same role at Auburn University under head coach Gene Chizik. Prior to joining Auburn, Loeffler served as offensive coordinator for Temple. He has spent over a decade coaching quarterbacks, primarily in the Big Ten and Southeastern conferences. On November 28, 2018, Loeffler was named head coach at BGSU.
Loeffler played quarterback for the Michigan Wolverines from 1993 to 1996. After suffering a shoulder injury that prematurely ended his playing career, Loeffler joined Lloyd Carr's coaching staff at his alma mater as a graduate assistant, and was a part of the Wolverine staff during the 1997 undefeated, national championship season. Jim Herrmann - the team's defensive coordinator from 1997 to 2005 - would later state that Loeffler helped develop future NFL quarterbacks Tom Brady and Brian Griese in his early coaching tenure, particularly by focusing on throwing mechanics. In 2000, Loeffler was named quarterbacks coach at Central Michigan University. After coaching the Chippewas for two years, Loeffler returned to coaching quarterbacks at Michigan for the next six years.
In 2008, the Detroit Lions of the National Football League hired Loeffler to be a part of their offensive staff. However, after only one season out of the college ranks, Loeffler was hired by Urban Meyer to join his staff at Florida. Loeffler served as quarterbacks coach, where in his first season he was tasked with helping Tim Tebow become a more polished pro-style quarterback. Tebow finished the season ranked 1st in passer efficiency.
When Steve Addazio was let go from Florida to eventually become the new head coach at Temple University, he brought Loeffler along as the new offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach. Under his leadership, the Owls offense improved to the 7th leading rushing offense in the nation (257 yards per game) and 33rd nationally in pass efficiency (142.8). The team finished the season 9–4, ranked 2nd in the MAC East and defeated Wyoming 37–15 in the 2011 New Mexico Bowl (the school's first bowl win since the 1979 Garden State Bowl). Sophomore quarterback Chris Coyer was named the bowl's MVP and finished the season with a 177.4 passer rating.
Following the season, Loeffler was linked to the vacant OC positions at the University of Alabama, Louisiana State University and the University of Wisconsin.
On January 22, 2012, head coach Gene Chizik hired Loeffler to serve as offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach at Auburn.
At the end of the 2012 season, Chizik was fired by Auburn. Former offensive coordinator Gus Malzahn was hired as head coach on December 4, 2012. Shortly after being hired, Malzahn announced that all assistant coaches were being released, thus ending Loeffler's career at Auburn University. The offense finished the season dead last in the SEC in total yds/gm and pass yds/gm at 305 and 156.6, respectively. They also finished second to last with 18.7 pts/gm.
On January 18, 2013, Virginia Tech head coach Frank Beamer announced Loeffler's hiring as one of three new Hokies offensive assistants, along with offensive line coach Jeff Grimes (also formerly of Auburn) and wide receivers coach Aaron Moorehead (formerly of Stanford University). Loeffler was not retained following the retirement of Beamer after the 2015 season and the hiring of Justin Fuente.
On January 12, 2016, Loeffler was hired by Boston College as their offensive coordinator, reuniting him with Addazio.
On November 28, 2018, Loeffler was hired as the head coach of Bowling Green State University. Loeffler was taking over a Falcon program riddled by APR and off-field issues, as well as a team that in the last regime fell apart under Mike Jinks. Jinks took over with Bowling Green coming off of 3 straight MAC East Championships, winning the MAC twice and went just 4–8, 2–10, and 1–7 before being fired. Loeffler detailed a rebuilding plan that would take time. With just 2 scholarship quarterbacks on the roster, one a transfer and one a former walk-on, Loeffler's Falcons went 3–9 in 2019. The season was highlighted by beating BGSU's biggest rival Toledo for the first time in a decade. BG was a 30-point underdog at home. The COVID 2020 season went 0–5. The 2021 season saw an improved 4–8 record, highlighted by a massive 38-point upset at Minnesota, 14–10. The 2022 season started off tough, with an FCS loss to EKU in 7 overtimes, followed by a homecoming win over Marshall who had just beaten 8th-ranked Notre Dame the week before. The Falcons started off MAC play 1–1, suffering a blowout loss to Buffalo but then won their next 3 conference games. BGSU finished the 2022 season 6–6, and was ranked 3rd in the MAC East with a 5–3 conference record. It received an invitation to play New Mexico State in the 2022 Quick Lane Bowl, losing by a 24–19 score. In 2023, BGSU started out 1–3 before upsetting Georgia Tech in Atlanta, and then going 5–2 to finish the season with a 7–5 record. The Falcons lost to Minnesota, 30–24, in the 2023 Quick Lane Bowl.
On October 30, 2021, Loeffler became the first head coach to be ejected for two unsportsmanlike conduct calls.
On February 28, 2025, Loeffler left Bowling Green to join the Philadelphia Eagles as their quarterbacks coach.
Loeffler received his bachelor's degree from the University of Michigan in 1996 and a graduate degree in history and political science in 1998. He earned the Michigan Athletic Academic Achievement award during the 1997–98 academic year. Loeffler has a son, Luke, from his first marriage and two children, Alexis and Mary Elizabeth, with his current wife, Amie. He was a college quarterback coach to Tom Brady and is reported to be one of his closest friends.
The ITF Women's Circuit – Sanya was a tournament for professional tennis players played on outdoor hardcourts in Sanya, China. It was classified as a $50,000 ITF Women's Circuit event which took place from 2011 to 2013.
ITF search Archived 2018-10-23 at the Wayback Machine
O3 is the debut studio album by the English techno/house music band Sunscreem, released in 1993 by Sony Soho Square and Columbia Records. It includes four singles which charted in the United Kingdom: "Pressure", which originally reached number 60 in the UK singles chart; "Love U More", which reached number 23 (AUS No. 30, US No. 36, US Dance No. 1, CAN No. 48); "Perfect Motion", which reached number 18; and a cover of the 1979 Marianne Faithfull song "Broken English", which reached number 13. A remake of "Pressure", retitled as "Pressure US", was also released as a single, reaching number 19 in the UK singles chart (AUS No. 64, US Dance No. 1).
In a review for AllMusic, Steven McDonald said that O3 "displays a techno act with something of a heart and focus (plus a real drummer from time to time)." He opined that "While the energy level does get pumped from time to time, the accent is more on solid song design and upfront female vocals that do more than provide just another element of the mixes, putting this firmly into the Deee-Lite camp." McDonald concluded the review by
describing the album's highlights as being the singles "Love U More", "Perfect Motion" and "Broken English".
All tracks written by Sunscreem, except where noted.
Rob Fricker – bass guitar, backing vocals
Mick Shiner – production (tracks 2, 6–8, 13)
Ian Graham Knott (born 2 October 1976) is an English former rugby league footballer who played for Wigan St Judes ARLFC, Warrington Wolves, Wakefield Trinity, and Leigh Centurions (captain), as a fullback, centre, stand-off, second-row, or loose forward.
Knott's career was ended in 2005 by a severe back injury sustained during a match, which left him unable to walk before he underwent five surgeries and had a morphine pump implanted. He subsequently required the use of a walking stick and suffered from psychosis and depression, later revealing to The Guardian in 2019 that he still occasionally required the morphine pump and that he had attempted suicide following the injury. He now works as a public speaker for State of Mind, a charity that aims to tackle the stigma around the mental health of male athletes and their reluctance to discuss their struggles.
XIII Heroes > Ian Knott Fundraiser – 27 & 28 July 2007
Statistics at wolvesplayers.thisiswarrington.co.uk
25TFM-NBOMe (also known as NBOMe-2C-TFM, 2C-TFM-NBOMe, and Cimbi-138) is a derivative of the phenethylamine hallucinogen 2C-TFM, discovered by Ralf Heim at the Free University of Berlin by 2000. It can be taken to produce psychedelic effects similar to 25I-NBOMe and 25D-NBOMe.
25TFM-NBOMe acts as a potent partial agonist for the serotonin 5-HT2A receptor, though its relative potency is disputed, with some studies finding it to be of lower potency than 25I-NBOMe, while others show it to be of similar or higher potency, possibly because of differences in the assay used.
Analogues of 25TFM-NBOMe include 2C-TFM, DOTFM, and TFMFly (DOTFM-FLY), among others.
25TFM-NBOMe was first described in the scientific literature by Ralf Heim and colleagues at the Free University of Berlin by 2000.
25TFM-NBOMe is a controlled substance in Canada under phenethylamine blanket-ban language.
This substance is a Class A drug in the United Kingdom as a result of the N-benzylphenethylamine catch-all clause in the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971.
The Tower (German: Der Turm) is a 2012 German TV drama film based on the eponymous 2008 novel by Uwe Tellkamp. It is about life and history in Dresden between 1982 and 1989 in the German Democratic Republic, GDR and its last years before demonstrations, the time of Die Wende (the turning from former socialistic government with Stasi-elements to democracy), the tearing down of the wall and before German reunification.
Sebastian Urzendowsky as Christian Hoffmann
The Mounts is a small hamlet, containing only 17 houses, situated on the A381 road between Totnes and Kingsbridge in Devon, England. It is part of the parish of East Allington, and lies about one mile away from the main village. Although The Mounts' postcode indicates it to be part of Totnes, it in fact lies much nearer to Kingsbridge.
Historically, The Mounts was on the border of the area which was evacuated during World War II so that secret rehearsals for the D-Day landings ("Exercise Tiger") could be carried out, using Slapton Sands. Properties on the east side of the A381 were evacuated, whereas properties on the west side were allowed to remain occupied. It was in St. Andrew's Church, East Allington, that the announcement of the evacuation of the area was made, on 12 November 1943.
Vortech, Inc. is an American aircraft manufacturer based in Fallston, Maryland. The company specializes in the design and manufacture of rotorcraft in the form of plans and kits for amateur construction. Some of their designs also comply with the US FAR 103 Ultralight Vehicles rules as well.
Founded in 1970, Vortech and its parent company, Prismz, provide plans, books, some kits and parts to enable hobbyists to construct a wide array of machines, including: helicopters, autogyros, mini-cars, trikes, scooters, wind generators, engines, boats and electroplating systems. Prismz also provides computer graphics and publishing layout services.
Vortech also manufactures its own line of helicopter rotor blades made from single-piece metal extrusions.
Benfica Women's Soccer Club, previously known as Benfica L.F.C. and Mitsubishi Benfica, is an Irish association football club based in Waterford. Founded in 1965, Benfica are one of the oldest women's football clubs in the Republic of Ireland.
During the 1970s, 1980s and early 1990s they were also one of Ireland's leading women's clubs. They were founder members of the Ladies League of Ireland, played in the Dublin Women's Soccer League and were FAI Women's Cup finalists on at least five occasions.
Benfica was formed in 1965 by Joey O'Callaghan and Sean Cuddihy. They were originally formed to enter a mixed factory five-a-side football competition and were named after S.L. Benfica, the club of Eusébio, the 1965 European Footballer of the Year, who was the founding members favourite player.
During their history Benfica have fielded teams in various women's county, provincial and national leagues. They began playing in the Waterford Ladies League. In 1973 Benfica became founding members of the Ladies League of Ireland In 1987 when the national league was revived Benfica were again members. Other members included Cork Rangers, Cork Celtic, Greenpark (Limerick) and Dublin Castle.
While playing in the Ladies League of Ireland during the 1980s, Benfica were sponsored by Mitsubishi. However the revived Ladies League of Ireland lasted just three seasons and was abandoned in 1989. Benfica subsequently joined the Cork Ladies League. During the early 1990s they played in the Munster Ladies League. During the early 2000s they fielded teams in both the Dublin Women's Soccer League and the Wexford and District League. As of September 2025, they field teams in the Waterford District Women & Schoolgirls League.
During the 1980s and early 1990s, Benfica played in at least five FAI Women's Cup finals, winning the competition three times. After losing the 1986 final to Dublin Castle, Benfica won the cup for the first time when they defeated Boyne Rovers 3–2 in the 1987 final at Dalymount Park. In the 1989 final they defeated Rathfarnham United 4–2 after extra time at The Farm. The Benfica team included Republic of Ireland internationals Eithne Hennessy, Siobhan Furlong, Yvonne Lyons and Therese Leahy. In the 1992 final they lost after a penalty shootout to Welsox at Dalymount Park. Benfica won the cup for the third time in 1993 in controversial circumstances. College Corinthians originally defeated Benfica 1–0 in the final. However a replay was held after it was discovered that Corinthians had fielded two unregistered players. In the replay, a fifteen year old Ciara Grant scored twice as Benfica won 3–0 at Kilcohan Park.
Benfica have played their home games at various grounds throughout Waterford. During the 1970s they played at Johnville Ground, St. John's Park. During the 1980s they played at Ozier Park, Poleberry. They have also played at Kilcohan Park and the Waterford Regional Sports Centre.
The Flags of Napoleonic Italy were the green, white and red tricolour flags and banners in use in Italy during the Napoleonic era, which lasted from 1796 to 1814. During this period, on 7 January 1797, the green, white and red tricolour was officially adopted for the first time as a national flag by a sovereign Italian state, the Cispadane Republic. This event is commemorated by the Tricolour Day.
The Italian tricolour, like other tricolour flags, is inspired by the French one, introduced by the revolution in the autumn of 1790 on French Navy warships, and symbol of the renewal perpetrated by the origins of Jacobinism.
The first documented trace of the use of Italian national colours is dated 21 August 1789. In the historical archives of the Republic of Genoa it is reported that eyewitnesses had seen some demonstrators pinned on their clothes hanging a red, white and green cockade on their clothes.
The oldest documented mention of the Italian tricolour flag is linked to the first descent of Napoleon in the Italian Peninsula. With the start of the first campaign in Italy, in many places the Jacobins of the peninsula rose up, contributing, together with the Italian soldiers framed in the Napoleonic army, to the French victories.
This renewal was accepted by the Italians despite being linked to the conveniences of Napoleonic France, which had strong imperialist tendencies, because the new political situation was better than the previous one. The double-threaded link with France was in fact much more acceptable than in past centuries in absolutism.
During the first campaign in Italy, Napoleon, under the command of the Army of Italy, conquered the states into which the Italian peninsula was divided by founding new republican state bodies inspired by French revolutionary ideals. Between 1796 and 1799 were born, among others, the Piedmontese Republic, the Cispadane Republic, the Transpadane Republic, the Ligurian Republic, the Roman Republic, the Anconine Republic and the Parthenopean Republic. Many of these republics had a short existence, but despite this, the length of time that they existed was more than enough to spread the French revolutionary ideals, including that of the self-determination of the people, which laid the foundations for the unification of Italy.
The first territory to be conquered by Napoleon was Piedmont; in the historical archive of the Piedmontese municipality of Cherasco there is a document that proves, on 13 May 1796, on the occasion of the homonymous armistice between Napoleon and the Austrian-Piedmontese troops, with which Victor Emmanuel I of Piedmont-Sardinia ceded Nice and Savoy to France to end the war, the first mention of the Italian flag, which refers to municipal banners hoisted on three towers in the historic centre.
[...] a banner was raised, made up of three canvases of different colours, namely Red, White, Green Blue. [...].
On the document, the term "green" was subsequently crossed out and replaced by "blue", the colour that forms — together with white and red — the French flag.
Despite the various hypotheses on the origin of the Italian tricolour and the meaning of its colours, there is no certain and unequivocal evidence of its existence before the entry of the French into Milan, which took place on 14 May 1796. In France, due to the Revolution, the flag had passed from having a "dynastic" and "military" meaning, to having a "national" one, and this concept, still unknown in Italy, was transmitted by the French to the Italians.
This explains both the initial indifference to the adoption of the new flag, which left few certain traces of its origin, and the fact that initially, instead of adopting their own flag, many cities had raised the French tricolour. The new conquest was not, as in ancient times, "jealous" of its colours but proud that they were put on display, these being the symbols of a conquering army and a victorious people. It is to the French flag that the documents, at least until October 1796, refer when they use the term "tricolour".
On 11 October 1796, Napoleon communicated to the Directory the birth of the Lombard Legion, a military unit constituted by the General Administration of Lombardy, a government headed by the Transpadane Republic. On this document, in reference to its war flag, which traced the French tricolor and which was proposed to Napoleon by the Milanese patriots, it is reported that:
[...] Here you will find the organization of the Lombard Legion: the national colours adopted are green, white and red. [...]
In this regard, one of the pro-Napoleonic Milanese patriots, the lawyer Giovanni Battista Sacco, declared:
[...] Already the tricolour banner that has long flattered us to make ourselves free is subject to reform: our national colour is part of it and in a certain way we are assured that the dawn bearer of our regeneration is here [...]
The Lombard Legion was therefore the first Italian military unit to have a tricolour war flag as a banner. According to the most authoritative sources, the choice made by the members of the Lombard Legion to replace the blue of the French flag with green is also linked to the colour of the uniforms of the Milanese city militia, whose members, since 1782, wore a uniform of this shade, that is a green outfit with red and white gorget patches. This is the reason, in the Milanese dialect, the members of this municipal guard were popularly called remolazzit, or "small radishes", recalling the luxuriant green leaves of this vegetable.
The white and red were also peculiar to the very ancient municipal coat of arms of Milan and were also common on the Lombard military uniforms of the time. It was therefore no coincidence that the green, white and red tricolour was chosen as an insignia by the Lombard Legion.
The first official approval of the Italian flag by the authorities was as a military insignia of the Lombard Legion and not yet as the national flag of a sovereign Italian state. On November 6, 1796, the first cohort of the Lombard Legion received its tricolour banner during a solemn ceremony at five o'clock in the afternoon in Piazza del Duomo in Milan. The flag was divided into three vertical bands; it also reported the inscription "Lombard Legion" and the cohort number, while in the centre there was an oak crown that enclosed a Phrygian cap and a Masonic square with pendulum. As shown in the "Prospectus of the formation of the Lombard Legion", each cohort was equipped with:
[...] its Lombard national tricolour banner, distinguished by number and adorned with the emblems of freedom [...]
Flags of the same style were also assigned to the other five established cohorts. All six banners are still extant, five being exhibited at the Museum of Military History in Vienna and one at the Musée de l'Armée in Paris. With the succession of Napoleon's military victories and the consequent birth of republics favourable to revolutionary ideals, in many Italian cities, red, white and green were adopted on military banners as a symbol of social and political innovation.
From 16 to 18 October 1796, in Modena, a congress was held in which the delegates of Bologna, Ferrara, Modena and Reggio Emilia participated, which decreed the birth of the Cispadane Republic, with lawyer Antonio Aldini as president.
The congress also deliberated the constitution of an Italian Legion, later renamed Cispadane Legion, which was to participate together with France in a war against the Austrians. The military banner of this military unit, which consisted of five cohorts of six hundred soldiers each, was composed of a red, white and green tricolour, probably inspired by the similar decision of the Lombard Legion:
[...] The constitution of the Cispadane Confederation is decreed, and the formation of the Italian Legion, whose cohorts must have as their flag the white, red and green banner adorned with the emblems of freedom. [...]
[...] ART.VIII Each Cohort will have its flag in three Italian National colours, distinguished by number, and adorned with the emblems of Liberty. The numbers of the Cohorts will be drawn by lot among those formed by the four Provinces. [...]
Not yet a national flag, but a war flag, the uniform of the soldiers of the Italian Legion was of the colours "already admitted by our Lombard brothers".
On 19 June 1796, Bologna was occupied by Napoleonic troops. At the same time, a Civic Guard was established, which adopted a uniform identical to that of the Milanese city militia, that is a green outfit with red and white displays. On 18 October 1796, at the same time as the constitution of the Italian Legion, the pro-Napoleonic congregation of magistrates and deputy deputies of Bologna, on the third point of the discussion, decided to create a tricolour civic banner, this time detached from military use. A document preserved in the Bologna State Archives states:
[...] Flag with National Colours - Asked what the National colours are to form a Flag, Green, White and Red were answered [...]
A resolution of the Senate of Bologna of 5 November 1796 abolished "all those badges that characterize a diversity of ranks among citizens" while prescribing that "everyone must be provided within the term of eight days and wear the French tricolour cockade or also our mixed national colours".
After the adoption by the Bolognese congregation, the tricolour became a political symbol of the struggle for the independence of Italy from foreign powers, given its use also in the civil sphere, taking the name of "flag of the Italian revolution".
The subsequent adoption of the Italian flag by a state body, the Cispadane Republic, was inspired by this Bolognese banner, linked to a municipal reality and therefore still having a purely local breath, and to previous military banners of the Lombard and Italian Legions. which took place on January 7, 1797.
With the invasion of Napoleon's troops, the Duke of Modena and Reggio Francesco III d'Este fled and the Reggian Republic was proclaimed (26 August 1796). At the same time the Civic Guard of the city of Reggio was constituted and this military formation, aided by a small group of French grenadiers, defeated a squad of 150 Austrian soldiers at Montechiarugolo on 4 October 1796. The victory was important — both from a political and symbolic point of view — that Napoleon made an official commendation to the Reggio soldiers who were the protagonists of the battle. For the armed clash of Montechiarugolo, Napoleon defined the city of Reggio Emilia as:
[...] "[Reggio Emilia is] the most mature Italian city for freedom" [...]
Ugo Foscolo dedicated the ode A Bonaparte liberatore ("To Bonaparte Liberator") to the Reggio protagonists of the battle of Montechiarugolo. The title page of this poem reads:
To you, the first true Italians, free citizens you showed yourselves, and with magnanimous example you shook the already sleepy Italy, I dedicate to you, which belongs to you, this Oda which I on a free zither I dared to dissolve to our Liberator. Young, as I am, born in Greece, educated among Dalmatians, and stammering for only four years in Italy, neither where nor could he sing to free men and Italians. But the high genius of Liberty which inflames me, and which makes me a Free Man, and a Citizen of a homeland not by fate but chosen, gives me the rights of the Italian and lends me republican energy, so that I raised myself on myself. I sing Bonaparte Liberatore, and I dedicate my songs to the animating city of Italy
Vincenzo Monti dedicated these verses from his cantica In morte di Lorenzo Mascheroni ("On the death of Lorenzo Mascheroni") to the event:
[...] Reggio still does not forget that from its bosom / the spark broke out whence the lightning / of our freedom ran [...]
Moreover, in Reggio Emilia, in August 1796, one of the first liberty pole had been planted. This event, which arose from a revolt against the ducal government on 20 August 1796 in Reggio, contributed, together with the events linked to the battle of Montechiarugolo, to the decision to choose Reggio Emilia as the venue for the cispadane congress, the assembly that then led to the birth of the flag of Italy.
As a symbolic recognition of the Montechiarugolo clash, and for the event related to the tree of liberty, Napoleon suggested to the deputies of the Cispadan cities (Reggio, Modena, Bologna and Ferrara) to gather for their first congress assembly on 27 December 1796 in Reggio Emilia.
The proposal was followed despite controversy with the other cities of Emilia, which wanted the assembly organized in their own municipality; the congress of 27 December took place then in the Reggio town hall designed by Bolognini which was to house the archive of the former duchy. Here, 110 delegates chaired by Carlo Facci approved the constitutional charter of the Cispadane Republic, including the territories of Bologna, Ferrara, Modena and Reggio Emilia. For this reason the salon of the Bolognini was renamed "centumvirate congress hall" or "patriotic hall".
In another session, dated 30 December 1796, the congress had approved a motion, amidst shower of applause such was the fervor of the delegates, which read:
[...] Bologna, Ferrara, Modena and Reggio constitute a one and indivisible Republic for all relations, so that the four populations form only one people, one family, for all purposes, both past and future, no one except. [...]
In subsequent meetings, which always took place in the "hall of the congress centumvirate" of Reggio, many decisions were decreed and formalized, including the choice of the emblem of the newly formed republic. To put forward the proposal for the adoption of a green, white and red national flag was Giuseppe Compagnoni, who for this reason is remembered as the "father of the Italian flag", in the XIV session of the cispadane congress of 7 January 1797. The adoption decree states:
[...] From the minutes of the XIV Session of the Cispadan Congress: Reggio Emilia, 7 January 1797, 11 am. Patriotic Hall. The participants are 100, deputies of the populations of Bologna, Ferrara, Modena and Reggio Emilia. Giuseppe Compagnoni also motioned that the standard or Cispadan Flag of three colours, Green, White and Red, should be rendered Universal and that these three colours should also be used in the Cispadan Cockade, which should be worn by everyone. It is decreed. [...]
The final choice of a green, white and red flag was not without a prior discussion. Instead of the green, the Italian Jacobins favoured the blue of the French flag, while the members of the papacy preferred the yellow of the Papal States' banner. Regarding the white and red, there were no disputes. Finally, the discussion on the third colour focused on green, which was later approved as a compromise solution. The choice of green was most probably inspired by the tricolour green, white and red military flag of the Lombard Legion, the first Italian military department to equip itself, as a banner, with an Italian tricolour flag.
The congress's decision to adopt a green, white and red tricolour flag was then also greeted by a jubilant atmosphere, enthusiasm of the delegates, and by bursts of applause. For the first time, the city of ducal states for centuries enemies, they identify themselves as one people and a common identity symbol: the tricolour flag.
The historic session of the congress did not specify the characteristics of this flag with the determination of the tonality and proportion of the colours, and did not even specify their location on the banner. Also in the minutes of the meeting of Saturday 7 January 1797 read:
[...] Always Compagnoni makes a motion that the coat of arms of the Republic be raised in all those places where it is customary to keep the coat of arms of the Sovereignty. [...] It also makes a motion that the Cispadane Standard or Flag of three colours, Green, White and Red, be made Universal and that these three colours are also used in the Cispadane Cockade, which must be worn by everyone. [...] Behind another motion by Compagnoni after some discussion, it is decreed that the Era of the Cispadane Republic begins on the first day of January of the current year 1797, and that this is called Year I of the Cispadan Republic to be marked in all public acts, adding, if you like, the year of the Common Era. It is decreed. [...]
For the first time the Italian flag officially became the national flag of a sovereign state, disengaging itself from the local military and civic meaning. This adoption of the Italian flag assumed an important political value. On the basis of this event, the "centumvirate congress hall" of Reggio was later renamed "Sala del Tricolore". In the assembly of 21 January, which was instead convened in Modena, the adoption of the Tricolour was confirmed:
[...] confirming the resolutions of previous meetings - decreed the flag of the State - by virtue of men and times - made a symbol of the indissoluble unity of the nation. [...]
The flag of the Cispadane Republic was in horizontal bands with the top red, the white in the centre and the green at the bottom. In the centre was also the emblem of the republic, while on the sides the letters "R" and "C" were shown, the initials of the two words that form the name of the "Repubblica Cispadana". The coat of arms of the Cispadane Republic contained a quiver with four arrows that symbolized the four cities of the Cispadan congress.
The Italian flag was first displayed in public in Modena on February 12, 1797; to celebrate the event a procession was organized through the streets of the city, which went down in history with the name of "patriotic walk", with exponents of the civic guard and the army who solemnly honoured it. From this date, the Italian tricolour also spread beyond the borders of Emilia, especially in Lombardy, and began to be used more and more often as a military banner by the Napoleonic soldiers who fought in Italy.
In Bergamo, civilians were obliged to wear a tricolour cockade pinned to their clothes, a coercion that was sanctioned, on 13 May 1797, also in Modena and Reggio nell'Emilia. Even without the need for obligations on the part of the authorities, the cockade spread more and more among the population, who wore it with pride, laying the foundations, together with other factors, for the Risorgimento.
The green, white and red tricolour was then adopted by the cities of Venice, Brescia, Padua, Bergamo, Vicenza and Verona, with the latter having rebelled against the government of the Republic of Venice.
A few months later, on 29 June 1797, with the union between the Cispadane and Transpadane republics, the Cisalpine Republic was formed, a large-scale pro-Napoleonic state body with Milan as its capital.
At the formal celebration of the birth in the new republic, which took place on 9 July in the Milanese capital, 300,000 people participated (only 25,000 according to other sources), including ordinary citizens, French soldiers and representatives of the major municipalities of the republic. According to Francesco Melzi d'Eril, a participant of the event, there were about 1,000 Milanese citizens who spontaneously participated in the celebration, while the remaining part was made up of soldiers.
The event, which took place at the lazaretto of Milan, was characterized by a riot of flags and tricolour cockades. On this occasion Napoleon solemnly gave to the military units of the newborn republic, after having reviewed them, their tricolour banners.
Originally the colours of the flag of the Cisalpine Republic were arranged horizontally, with green at the top, but on 11 May 1798, the Grand Council of the newborn State chose, as the national banner, an Italian tricolour with the colours arranged vertically:
[...] the Flag of the Cisalpine Nation is made up of three bands parallel to the shaft, green, the next white, the third red. The shaft is similarly tri-coloured in a spiral, with a white tip [...]
The sedentary National Guard of the Cisalpine Republic was structured similarly to the Lombard and Cispadana Legions, that is, into legions, battalions and companies. The uniform of this military team was white, red and green:
[...] [The soldiers will wear] cockade and plume in the national colours. [...] [Furthermore] each battalion will have a flag with the three national colours, in the bottom of which will be written on one side the Cisalpine National Guard, with the name of the department, the legion number, and of the battalion: on the other "freedom", "equality", "support for the laws". [...]
The Cisalpine Republic, since it included Lombardy, part of the Veronese area, the former Duchy of Modena and Reggio, the former Duchy of Massa and Carrara, the Legations of Bologna, Ferrara and Romagna, was the nucleus of modern Italy, despite Napoleon having ceded to Archduchy of Austria, with the Treaty of Campo Formio (17 October 1797), the territories of the former Republic of Venice, namely Veneto, Friuli, Istria, Dalmatia, control over the Republic of Ragusa, until that moment in the orbit of the Venice of the Doges.
The first Cisalpine Republic lasted until 1799, when it was occupied and dissolved by the Austrians and the Russians, or by two of the armies that were part of the Second Coalition. In 1800, Napoleon again invaded Italy from Egypt, succeeding in reconquering the territories previously subtracted from the second coalition and reviving, among other things, the Cisalpine Republic. On this occasion Napoleon decreed the use of the tricolour for the National Guards of each city. A proclamation of 20 September 1800 confirmed the colours of the national cockade, white, red and green, specifying that it had to be affixed to clothing in such a way as to be clearly visible. In this context the Subalpine Republic was born, a pro-Napoleonic state body that replaced the Savoyard Kingdom of Sardinia. The Subalpine Republic also had a short life, given that on 11 September 1802 it was annexed to the French First Republic.
In this period was born the attachment of the population towards the Italian flag, which began to enter the social imaginary as a symbol of the country. This popular notoriety was however limited to Northern Italy; other pro-Napoleonic state bodies had in fact adopted other banners. The Roman Republic, for example, a black, white and red national flag, the Parthenopean Republic had, as a national banner, a blue, yellow and red flag, while the Anconine Republic was represented by a blue, yellow and red banner.
This was especially true in the army, where the tricolour military banner was defended at all costs from the capture of the enemy. An episode that occurred on 16 January 1801, during the second Cisalpine Republic was significant in that the Napoleonic officer Teodoro Lechi, in a clash with the Austrians in Trento during which a bridge over the Adige river was disputed, decided to burn the tricolour flags of the military unit to prevent them from falling into the hands of the enemy before surrendering.
With the transformation of the Cisalpine Republic into the Italian Republic (1802–1805), a state body that did not include the entire Italian peninsula and which was also directly dependent on Napoleonic France, the arrangement of the colours on the flag changed into a composition formed by a green square inserted in a white diamond, in turn included in a red box. The Presidential standard of Italy in use since 14 October 2000 was inspired by this flag.
The radical change in the arrangement of the colours was probably proposed by the Vice President of the Republic Francesco Melzi d'Eril, who perhaps wanted to communicate, even from a symbolic point of view, the end of a phase of the history of Italy. The decree of adoption of the historic Napoleonic flag, which is dated 20 August 1802, reads:
[...] [the flag of the Italian Republic is formed by] a square with a red background, in which a rhombus with a white background is inserted, containing another square with a green background [...]
Melzi d'Eril also wanted to eliminate the green but, due to the opposition of Napoleon and the "pressure of democratic Masonic moral forces, the colour was kept.
With the transformation of the Italian Republic into the Kingdom of Italy (1805–1814), also a state body not including the entire Italian peninsula, the flag did not undergo substantial changes. In the meantime, the Napoleonic revolutionary thrust underwent an evolution, taking on more reactionary hues: for example, the French revolutionary calendar was abolished, which was replaced by the restoration of the ancient Gregorian calendar, and many myths of the French revolution, such as the Storming of the Bastille, were overshadowed.
This change also affected the use of flags and cockades. The Italian tricolour was increasingly replaced by the French one, with the blue of the French flag taking the place of the green of the Italian banner. This change was also formal: the bands of mayors now consisted of the French tricolour and no longer the Italian one.
Despite these limitations, the green, white and red tricolour continued to enter more and more into the collective imagination of Italians becoming, to all intents and purposes, an unequivocal symbol of Italianness. In just under 20 years, the Italian flag, from a simple banner derived from the French one, had acquired its own identity, becoming very famous and well known.
With the fall of Napoleon (1814) and the restoration of the absolutist monarchical regimes, the Italian tricolour went underground, becoming the symbol of the patriotic ferments that began to spread in Italy and the symbol which united all the efforts of the Italian people towards freedom and independence.
Between 1820 and 1861, a sequence of events led to the independence and unification of Italy (except for Veneto and the province of Mantua, Lazio, Trentino-Alto Adige and Julian March, known as Italia irredenta, which were united with the rest of Italy in 1866 after the Third Italian War of Independence, in 1870 after the capture of Rome, and in 1918 after the First World War respectively); this period of Italian history is known as the Risorgimento. The Italian tricolour waved for the first time in the history of the Risorgimento on 11 March 1821 in the Cittadella of Alessandria, during the revolutions of 1820s, after the oblivion caused by the restoration of the absolutist monarchical regimes.
Year 903 (CMIII) was a common year starting on Saturday of the Julian calendar.
King Berengar I of Italy proceeds to issue concessions and privileges to the Lombard nobility and monasteries. He grants concessions to Bobbio Abbey in Emilia-Romagna (Northeast Italy).
King Louis IV ("the Child") promulgates the Raffelstetten customs regulations, a legal document for a toll-bridge on the Danube River in Asten (modern Austria).
The Danish Vikings invade Anglesey after being driven out of Dublin (see 902). They fail to gain a foothold in Wales, and sail on to Chester.
A party of Danes under the Viking warlord Ingimundr attack the Welsh in a pitched battle at Maes Ros Meilon, perhaps near Llanfaes.
November 29 – Battle of Hama: Abbasid forces under Muhammad ibn Sulayman al-Katib defeat the Qarmatians near Hama, on the banks of the Orontes River (modern Syria). The Qarmatian army is scattered and pursued by Abbasid troops; Al-Husayn ibn Zikrawayh and other Qarmatian leaders are captured.
July – Pope Benedict IV dies after a 3-year reign. He is succeeded by Leo V as the 118th pope of the Catholic Church. Leo is imprisoned and tortured by Antipope Christopher after a reign of just 1 month. Christopher makes himself the new pope of Rome.
December 7 – Abd al-Rahman al-Sufi, Persian astronomer (d. 986)
Feng Yanji, chancellor of Southern Tang (d. 960)
Kūya, Japanese priest of Pure Land Buddhism (d. 972)
Wang Jun, chancellor of Later Zhou (or 902)
Lu Guangqi, Chinese official and chancellor
March 26 – Sugawara no Michizane, Japanese politician and poet (b. 845)
July 27– Abdallah II of Ifriqiya, Aghlabid emir
July – Benedict IV, pope of the Catholic Church
December 30 – Tian Jun, Chinese warlord (b. 858)
Moses Bar-Kepha, Syriac bishop and writer
Théodrate of Troyes, Frankish queen (b. 868)
The Republic of Cabinda (Ibinda: Kilansi kia Kabinda; Portuguese: República de Cabinda) was an independent protectorate of Portugal that was taken over by Angola after Portugal declared Angola a free country. It is currently an unrecognized state, and is known to Angola as Cabinda Province, part of Angolan territory. The Front for the Liberation of the State of Cabinda-Exército de Cabinda (FLEC) claimed sovereignty just after the Republic of Cabinda was proclaimed as an independent country in 1975 from Portugal and just after Angola invaded. The government of this (internationally unrecognized) entity operates in exile, with offices located in Paris, France, and Pointe Noire, Republic of the Congo.
The 1885 Treaty of Simulambuco designated Cabinda a Portuguese protectorate known as the Portuguese Congo, which was administratively separate from Portuguese West Africa (Angola). In the 20th century, Portugal integrated Cabinda as a district within the "overseas province" of Angola. During the Portuguese Colonial War, FLEC fought for the independence of Cabinda from the Portuguese. Independence was proclaimed on 1 August 1975, and FLEC formed a provisional government led by Henrique N'zita Tiago. Luis Ranque Franque was elected president.
In January 1975, Angola's three national liberation movements (People's Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA), National Liberation Front of Angola (FNLA) and National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA) met with the colonial power in Alvor, Portugal, to establish the modalities of the transition to independence. There was no representation for Cabinda despite being a Portuguese protectorate Treaty of Simulambuco, not being a colony, and winning independence from Portugal in August 1975. FLEC was also not invited. On 15 January 1975 the Alvor Agreement was signed, laying the groundwork for official Angolan independence (to be instituted on 11 November 1975) and confirming Cabinda as part of Angola. The Alvor agreements were suspended by Portugal just one month and seventeen days before Angola's independence making Angola's claim to Cabinda void. However, after Angolan independence was declared in November 1975, Cabinda was occupied by the forces of the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA), which had been present in Cabinda since the mid-1960s, sustaining an anti-colonial guerrilla war that was rather more efficient than the one run by FLEC.
For much of the 1970s and 1980s, the FLEC fought a low-intensity guerrilla war, attacking the troops of what was by then the People's Republic of Angola, led by the MPLA. FLEC's tactics included attacking economic targets and kidnapping foreign employees working in the province's oil and construction businesses. In July 2006, after ceasefire negotiations, António Bento Bembe – as president of the Cabindan Forum for Dialogue and Peace, vice-president and executive secretary of FLEC – announced that the Cabindan separatist forces were ready to declare a ceasefire. A peace treaty was signed. FLEC-FAC from Paris contends Bembe had no authority or mandate to negotiate with the Angolans and that the only acceptable solution is total independence.
Cabinda is a territory of 7,284 square kilometres in west central Africa with a population of 264,584 in 2006 (estimate), divided between four municipalities of Belize (population: 17,693), Buco Zau (40,019), Cabinda (185,924) and Cacongo (20,948). Cabinda is an Angolan exclave, which means that it is not connected to the rest of Angola by land. It borders the Atlantic Ocean to the west, the Republic of the Congo to the north, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo to the east and south. The DR Congo territory along the north bank of the Congo River separates Cabinda from the Angolan mainland.
More than 3,500 people of Cabinda live in refugee camps in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in the Republic of the Congo.
The Republic of Cabinda traces its claims to self-sovereignty to its initial status as a Portuguese protectorate, known as the Portuguese Congo This protectorate had a separate history and legal status from that of the much larger Portuguese West Africa, dating to its inception on 19 September 1883. Also, in the Treaty of Simulambuco and the Berlin Conference in 1885, Cabinda and Angola were treated as distinct entities.
From inception onwards, Cabinda experienced several changes of status within the Portuguese framework, oscillating between positions of relative autonomy and integration within the greater Colony (or Province) of Angola.
The agreement of turn of the century Great Britain with Portugal as to jurisdiction boundaries, reached to counter the French and Belgians next door in the Congos, triggered the Scramble for Africa when the latter, not to mention the Germans, expressed disagreement.
In May 2019, repression was reported in Cabinda.
During the movement for Angolan independence in the 1960s, the situation became more complex. In May 1963 the Organization of African Unity (OAU) ranked Cabinda as the 39th state still to be decolonized and Angola as the 35th.
In the early 1960s, several independence movements advocating a separate status for Cabinda came into being. The Movement for the Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda (MLEC) was formed in 1960 under the leadership of Luis Ranque Franque. Resulting from the merger of various émigré associations in Brazzaville, the MLEC rapidly became the most prominent of the separatist movements. A further group was the Alliama (Mayombe National Alliance), representing the Mayombe, a small minority of the population. These movements united in August 1963 to form a common, united front called the Front for the Liberation of the State of Cabinda (FLEC). The leadership role was taken by the MLEC's Ranque Franque. FLEC established a Cabindan government in exile in Kinshasa. In marked contrast with the FNLA, the FLEC's efforts to mobilize international support for its government in exile met with little success. In fact, the majority of OAU members, concerned that this could encourage separatism elsewhere on the continent and duly committed to the sanctity of African state borders, firmly rejected recognition of the FLEC's government in exile. Later, in the course of Angola's turbulent decolonisation process, Ranque Franque proclaimed the independence of the Republic of Cabinda in Kampala on 1 August 1975 at an OAU summit which was discussing Angola at that precise moment. Zairian President Mobutu Sese Seko called for a referendum on the future of the Cabinda. Congolese Prime Minister Henri Lopes is reported to have said at the time that "Cabinda exists as a reality and is historically and geographically different from Angola."
The Alvor Agreement, signed on January 15, 1975, granted Angola independence from Portugal on November 11. The agreement, signed by the MPLA, FNLA, UNITA, and the Portuguese government, was never signed by the FLEC or any representatives of Cabinda. MPLA (mainly Cuban) troops entered Cabinda via Pointe Noire on November 11, 1975, and incorporated Cabinda into Angola proper as "Cabinda Province". The Alvor Agreement states that "Angola constitutes one indivisible unity. In this context, Cabinda is an integral and inalienable part of Angola." At the time, Cabinda was producing nearly all of Angola's oil, which accounted for close to half of the nation's gross national product.
During much of the 1970s and 1980s, FLEC operated a low intensity, guerrilla war, attacking Angolan government troops and economic targets or creating havoc by kidnapping foreign employees working in the province's oil and construction businesses. In July 2006 after ceasefire negotiations in Brazzaville, António Bento Bembe – as a president of Cabindan Forum for Dialogue and Peace, vice-president and executive secretary of FLEC – announced that the Cabindan separatist forces were ready to declare a ceasefire. The peace was recognized by the United States, France, Portugal, Russia, Gabon, DR Congo, Republic of the Congo, Japan, South Korea, the European Union and the African Union. After the peace agreement, Bento Bembe was elected Minister without portfolio in the Government of Angola. FLEC-FAC from Paris contends Bembe has no authority or mandate to negotiate with the Angolans and that the only acceptable solution is total independence.
During a visit to Washington, D.C. in February 2003, Angolan President José Eduardo dos Santos said that he supported a referendum on Cabindan autonomy. However, he stated he intended to consult the Angolan people as well, who likely will be loath to relinquish sixty percent of their nation's oil revenues. FLEC said that it would only consider an East Timor-type referendum, which would grant Cabinda total independence.
On 8 January 2010, while being escorted by Angolan forces in Cabinda, the team bus of the Togo national football team was attacked by gunmen as it travelled to the 2010 Africa Cup of Nations tournament. The ensuing gunfight resulted in the deaths of the assistant coach, team spokesman and bus driver, as well as injuring several others.
An offshoot of the FLEC claimed responsibility. Rodrigues Mingas, secretary general of the Front for the Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda-Military Position (FLEC-PM), said that his fighters had meant to attack security guards as the convoy passed through Cabinda. "This attack was not aimed at the Togolese players but at the Angolan forces at the head of the convoy," Mingas told France 24 television. "So it was pure chance that the gunfire hit the players. We don't have anything to do with the Togolese and we present our condolences to the African families and the Togo government. We are fighting for the total liberation of Cabinda." FLEC released its version of the events of January 8 which suggests that elements of the Angolan secret police and their Cabindan agents were responsible for the attack.
ICE Case Studies : Cabinda, Angola's Forgotten War, 2004, by Alan Neff
Angola-Cabinda; Armed Conflicts Report Archived 2009-02-11 at the Wayback Machine, January 2007
Human Rights Watch: Angola: Stop Military Abuses in Cabinda, June 22, 2009
Official Site Cabinda's Government in Exile Government, English
"Waiting in Vain" is a song written by reggae musician Bob Marley and recorded by Bob Marley and the Wailers, for their 1977 album Exodus. Released as a single, it reached number 27 on the UK Singles Chart.
The single was one of only a few of Marley's Island singles to feature a non-album B-side, this being the song "Roots", an outtake from the Rastaman Vibration sessions. This later appeared on the compilation Rebel Music and on Exodus (Deluxe Edition). The 1981 reissue of Waiting in Vain featured a megamix called Marley Mix Up Medley instead.
A rare 19-minute long acoustic version is available on YouTube.
Bob Marley: lead and backing vocals, guitars
Tyrone Downie: synthesizer, electric piano, organ and backing vocals
In 1993, American Jazz guitarist Lee Ritenour recorded his version of the song featuring British reggae artist Maxi Priest. It was also included on his 21st album Wes Bound. The single peaked at number 54 in the US R&B chart.
"Waiting in Vain" was recorded by Scottish singer-songwriter Annie Lennox for her second studio album Medusa in 1995, 18 years after Marley recorded it. It was released as the album's third single in September 1995, by Arista Records, and reached number thirty-one on the UK Singles Chart.
Lennox recorded the song at The Aquarium Studios in London. The song was noted for its production style, particularly in its ability to deliberately not "recreate the ultra-relaxed vibe" of Marley's version. Instead, Lennox's version was described as "smooth and lovely during the verses, with a simple electronic rhythm, keyboards and beautiful lines of acoustic guitar".
Produced by Stephen Lipson, "Waiting in Vain" was released as the third official single from Lennox's second solo studio album Medusa, which consisted entirely of cover versions. It followed the first two singles from Medusa – ""No More 'I Love You's'"" and "A Whiter Shade of Pale", both of which achieved commercial success. Whilst it reached the top forty in the United Kingdom, it failed to match the commercial success of the previous two singles.
Lennox's version was used in the 2001 film Serendipity, the 2002 film Changing Lanes and the 2003 film In the Cut. Additionally, the song was featured in the final episode of the Peter Kay BBC comedy series Car Share as a track on the fictional radio station, Forever FM.
Azul (English title: Blue) is a Mexican telenovela produced by Pinkye Morris and Yuri Breña for Televisa. It premiered on Canal de las Estrellas on January 8, 1996 and ended on March 22, 1996.
The telenovela stars Kate del Castillo, Armando Araiza and Elvira Monsell.
Alejandra is a young woman who works at the Dolphinarium is an amusement park in Mexico City, works with Juanjo and Fina to care for dolphins and Keiko, a tender orca, who lives in the park and entertains visitors.
This is a list of fictional Jews, characters from any work of fiction whose Jewish identity has been noted as a key component of the story or who have been identified impacting or reflecting cultural views about Jewish people.
St. John's Church is a Grade II* listed Church of England parish church in Wolverhampton.
The church was built between 1758 and 1776 to designs of either William Baker or Roger Eykyn. It was a response to population pressures resulting from the Industrial Revolution and to the perceived threat of Dissent and Roman Catholicism in an area where Anglican ministry was limited by a unique ecclesiastical structure.
St John's was built as a chapel of ease of St Peter's Collegiate Church. The latter was a Royal Peculiar, entirely independent of the local Diocese of Lichfield. Its deans and chapter formed a college, a corporate body within canon law that had ecclesiastical control over a wide tract of Staffordshire in and to the north and east of Wolverhampton. The dean and chapter were absentee clergy who resented any threat, real or imagined, to their extremely lucrative monopolies: especially that on burials throughout the extensive parish and that on pews within the town of Wolverhampton. The deanery of Wolverhampton had been united with the far more prestigious deanery of Windsor since the late 15th century, encouraging the deans to be absentees—a situation that applied also to most of the prebendaries. However, Peniston Booth, dean from 1729 to 1765, took the unusual step of establishing a home in Wolverhampton and became more susceptible to local pressure for reform.
The population of Wolverhampton itself and of the towns to the east was growing rapidly as manufacturing took hold. There was a growth of Protestant Dissent, particularly as Methodism was preached in the town from about the middle of the 18th century: in 1761 John Wesley himself preached at an inn-yard in what he called "this furious town" of Wolverhampton. Catholic recusancy was strong in the surrounding countryside, under the leadership of the Giffard family of Brewood, who succeeded in building a Catholic chapel in the guise of a private house, just to the west of St. Peter's. The threat to the dominance of the Church of England seemed urgent and Booth bowed to pressure to authorise the building of new chapels of ease at St Thomas' Church, Wednesfield, St Giles Church, Willenhall and St Leonard's Church, Bilston. With considerably more persuasion, and after a major public campaign fronted by Lord Grey, Booth finally acquiesced in the building of a new chapel of ease in Wolverhampton itself. It was authorised by an act of Parliament, the Wolverhampton Chapel Act 1755 (28 Geo. 2. c. 34), and the fine Neo-Classical church of St John quickly rose on a site enclosed in a square, at that time on the southern edge of the town.
Initially, the building of St Johns greatly relieved pressure on space at St Peter's, but continued rapid population growth made it necessary to build two more churches very close to St John's within a few decades. (One, St Paul's, was demolished in 1960 to make way for Wolverhampton Ring Road, and St George's was transformed into a Sainsbury's superstore in the 1980s.) All were initially chapels of ease, dependent on St Peter's, although the circumstances of their foundation gave their lay sponsors considerable influence, as the clergy were largely dependent on the generosity of lay benefactors for an income and for maintenance of the church building. One of these sponsors was the musical Sir Samuel Hellier, known for the Hellier Stradivarius; the minister at the time, Thomas Shaw, was his heir and changed his name to Shaw-Hellier. One of his daughters, Parthenia, married the then-current minister in 1820.
St John's remained a redoubt of the high church tradition, like St Peter's itself, while the other new foundations were low church and increasingly centres of Evangelicalism. The Royal Peculiar was widely seen as corrupt and inefficient and was out of keeping with the reforming spirit of the 19th century. Financial reforms introduced in 1811 left the clergy of St Peter's better-paid but still dependent on St John's and the other chapels for a large part of their income in fees. Friction came to a head in the 1830s, when the perpetual curate of St Peter's was the particularly quarrelsome George Oliver.
A complete change came under the terms of legislation, variously termed the Cathedrals Act 1840 and the Ecclesiastical Commissioners Act 1840, but actually entitled An Act to carry into effect, with certain Modifications, the Fourth Report of the Commissioners of Ecclesiastical Duties and Revenues. Section 21 decreed that the Wolverhampton deanery should be suppressed, along with those of Middleham, Heytesbury and Brecon. Section 51 restricted the rights of any appointees to positions within the colleges but allowed the existing deans to continue in office until their deaths. The dean, Henry Hobart, died in 1846, triggering the abolition of the deanery. In 1848, the Wolverhampton Church Act abolished the ancient College of St Peter altogether and transferred all its assets to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. The Commissioners set up St John's and the other chapels of ease as independent parish churches, within the Diocese of Lichfield, and gave their clergy a large and much-needed pay rise. St John's survived as a parish church in its own right until the end of the 20th century, when population shifts and financial pressures finally resulted in its absorption into the Central Wolverhampton Parish.
The organ dates from 1684 by Renatus Harris. It was probably built for the famous battle of the organs at Temple Church. When rejected, it was sold to Christ Church Cathedral, Dublin, and from there it was sold to St. John's church in 1762. There have been many rebuilds and restorations since it was originally obtained. A specification of the organ can be found on the National Pipe Organ Register.[1]
Roland Rogers 1863–1867 (afterward organist of Tettenhall Parish Church, then Bangor Cathedral)
The Integrated Personnel and Pay System - Army (IPPS-A) is a United States Army acquisition program that seeks to integrate human resources and pay for all Army soldiers. It provides online tools and replaces older human resource systems. It has successfully fielded to the Army National Guard and was scheduled to field to active and reserve components by December 2021; however, fielding was delayed due to issues importing data from existing personnel systems.
The IPPS-A is a partnership between the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology and the Army G-1.
As part of the IPPS-A, the Army switched to a semimonthly payday for long-term active-duty soldiers.
The Integrated Personnel and Pay System - Army | Home
Braille is the fifth album from Json. Lamp Mode Recordings released the project on June 18, 2013.
Specifying in a four and a half star review by New Release Tuesday, Mark Ryan realizes, "Json, along with Spec have created a near perfect album." Mark Sherwood, indicating for Cross Rhythms in a nine out of ten review, replies, "the Iowa-based rapper delivers another powerful set." Signaling in a three and a half star review by The Christian Manifesto, Calvin Moore recognizes, "Braille is a return to form for him." In a 9.6 out of ten review by Justin Morden from Jam the Hype, responds, "With Braille, Json has released one of the best Christian Hip-Hop albums of the year."
Shanmugam "Sam" Murugesu (Tamil: சண்முகம் முருகேசு) (c.1967 – 13 May 2005) was a Singaporean jet skier and convicted drug trafficker. In 2005, he was executed for bringing cannabis into Singapore from Malaysia.
As a young man, he served in the Singaporean Army for 8 years, when a tank accident cost him his position there. He then turned to a passion for water sports, and was a jet ski world champion. He went on to represent Singapore at the 1995 IJSBA World Finals in Lake Havasu City, USA. His leg was broken when his jet ski was rammed by another competitor, and his desire to support his extended family took precedence over racing. He also suffered a severe hand injury while working as a mechanic. His love of the ocean led him to teach sailing and work for the Singapore Sports Council for four years. He also worked as a taxi driver and window cleaner.
In 2003, Shanmugam was arrested while crossing the Singapore/Malaysia border with 1.03 kg (2.2 lbs) of cannabis. Shanmugam was represented by M Ravi during his trial. He was sentenced to death on 29 April 2004. A clemency plea to the president of Singapore, S R Nathan, was rejected. A last-minute application to delay Shanmugam's execution was rejected by the High Court.
On 13 May 2005, Shanmugam was hanged. His death inspired artistic director Benny Lim to put on a one-man experimental play, Humans Lefts, to discuss the social issue of the death penalty.
Shanmugam was divorced and had two twin sons.
International Jet Sports Boating Association Website
Aristidis Konstantinidis (Greek: Αριστείδης Κωνσταντινίδης) was a Greek racing cyclist. He competed at the 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens.
Konstantinidis competed in the 10 kilometres, 100 kilometres, and road races. He won the road race, covering the 87 kilometres from Athens to Marathon and back in a time of 3:22:31 despite his bicycle breaking down shortly after turning around and him falling during the return trip. The race was then done with the help of pacemakers, and some sources say that he finished the race on a pacemaker's bicycle, because his bicycle had broken down. Other sources tell that he finished the race with a bicycle from a spectator.
Konstantinidis did not do as well in the track races, finishing fifth in the 10 kilometres after colliding with countryman Georgios Kolettis and not finishing the 100 kilometres. He was one of seven to not finish out of the nine that started the race.
In the 1906 Intercalated Games, Konstantinidis participated again, this time in the road race and in the 20 kilometres. He did not finish in the road race, and was eliminated in the second round in the 20 kilometres.
Konstantinidis co-founded the Athens Cycling Association.
Aristidis Konstantinidis at ProCyclingStats
Aristidis Konstantinidis at the Hellenic Olympic Committee
Barbara J. Bullock (Nov 24, 1938) is an African American painter, collagist, printmaker, soft sculptor and arts instructor. Her works capture African motifs, African and African American culture, spirits, dancing and jazz in abstract and figural forms. She creates three-dimensional collages, portraits, altars and masks in vibrant colors, patterns and shapes. Bullock produces artworks in series with a common theme and style.
Bullock was born in Philadelphia on Nov 24, 1938, after her father James Bullock moved his family from North Carolina to Philadelphia in the 1930s. They were part of the Great Migration of Black people to the North in search of better opportunities. Her mother Janie McFarland Bullock looked for work at the local armory and her father was a truck driver. The couple separated and Bullock's mother died when she was 12 years old. She, her brother Jack and sister Delores moved in with her father and stepmother Gertrude, who became her second mother. Both of Bullock's paternal grandparents, Rev. Oscar and Mattie Bullock, who visited often from North Carolina, were storytellers, and she grew up listening to their tales.(She would later create an abstract painting titled “Stories My Grandmother Told Me” in 2012.)
Bullock always felt a need to make things and was always in her parents’ basement doing that, she told artist Najee Dorsey in a 2017 interview. “I’ve always been creative. When I was growing up, I needed a language. I realized early on that art was going to be that language,” she told interviewers for a 2015 exhibit of Black artists at the Woodmere Art Museum in Philadelphia.
Bullock also took dancing lessons. She was asked to leave a dance class when she showed up one day with a stray dog and refused to remove it. She quit the class but never gave up on the concept. She participated in the School Art League, an arts program in the public schools. She attended Saturday-morning classes at the Philadelphia Museum School of Art School (now the University of the Arts) and participated in programs at community centers. She became interested in Africa after learning about it in National Geographic magazine and wanted to understand her connection to it.
She attended Roosevelt Junior High School and graduated from Germantown High School in 1958. She was headed to Moore Institute (now Moore College of Art and Design) to study fashion illustration. For three years, she took Saturday-morning painting and drawing classes at the Samuel S. Fleisher Art Memorial in Philadelphia. In 1963, she began taking night classes at Hussian School of Art, which taught commercial art classes. She remained at Hussian until 1966.
Bullock initially painted portraits of famous Americans, friends, and family members. Most of her early works were watercolors. She sought to show the humanity of Black people, she told an interviewer in 1966, but finally decided to paint what she felt.
In the 1960s, she became acquainted with other African American artists in Philadelphia. Several had attended or were attending the prestigious Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts (PAFA): Charles Pridgen, Cranston Walker, Richard Watson. Pridgen, Walter Edmonds and sculptor John Simpson were among those who had their own studios. She hung out with Joe Bailey, Moe Brooker, James Brantley, Charles Searles and Ellen Powell Tiberino to talk about their craft, the lack of exhibition opportunities and other issues. The seasoned artists offered advice and critiques of her work.
Bullock, Tiberino, Reba Dickerson Hill, and Fern Stanford were among the few working Black female artists at the time. Noting that many male artists were supported by their wives and married females were not readily accepted, Bullock decided not to get married. “I married my art,” she stated in the catalog for the Swarthmore College exhibit “Ubiquitous Presence” in 2022.
In 1971, Bullock was named art director of the Ile Ife Black Humanitarian Center, now the Village of Arts and Humanities, founded by dancer and choreographer Arthur Hall, where she stayed until 1975. She taught art techniques to children and young adults. Hall incorporated Yoruba culture, philosophy and spirit entities into the core of the center, which attracted artists, dancers and musicians from all over the world. Funded by the Model Cities Program, the center offered arts, African-inspired dance and music. Bullock met musicians Odean Pope and Max Roach, who also taught there.
Bullock embraced Hall's African sensibility and absorbed it into her own art. Her outlook changed, expanding beyond the teachings of her Catholic upbringing to accept the possibility of a world of spirits that allowed her to connect with her African roots. She took dance lessons from Hall, and she painted the dancers - images that found a permanent place in her works. “I want to express the ritual through dance, the communion of the body and spirit through movement,” she said in an artist statement for her retrospective at the Afro-American Historical and Cultural Museum in 1988.
She taught alongside Charles Pridgen, John Simpson, Charles Searles and Twins Seven Seven, a Nigerian who was the only survivor of seven sets of twins, who had settled in Philadelphia. In his works, Twins Seven Seven connected animals and spirits. Artist Moe Brooker noted that Bullock was among those artists who fed off their African heritage but kept it at a distance as they created their own unique styles.
Twins Seven Seven's influence can be seen in many of Bullock's paintings, including the series “Stilt Dancers,” 1975. She described her artwork as “chasing after spirits.” At one point, Bullock painted an image of an African spirit in a mural on the side of a building, which eventually collapsed. The mural and images – one was of Hall – were recreated by artist Lily Yeh in 2018 on another wall.
Bullock's spirit-based abstract works were dominated by vibrant colors, patterns, rhythmic movement and a cacophony of shapes. She chose black as a predominant color, she said, because she wanted to replace its negative symbolism with power and strength. Her materials included layers of painted paper, fabric, plant fibers, beads, metals, shells, feathers and other small materials. Some of her dancer and animal figures extended outward from the walls when hung. She worked in acrylic and gouache on paper, pen and ink, textured sculptures, figural collages - which she called “shaped paintings”- and three-dimensional wall collages made of heavy paper.
In 1980, she began making altars while researching African culture. She placed them in her home and did not finish, sell or trade them. Made of hand-dyed cloth, raffia, shells, beads, rocks and other objects, they were meant to protect her, she told an interviewer in 1999.
While at Ile Ife, she visited Haiti to learn about its religious practices. She also visited Jamaica and Mexico. With the aid of grants over several decades, Bullock traveled to Ethiopia, Egypt, Mali, Morocco, Senegal, Ghana, Côte d'Ivoire and South Africa. She incorporated into her collages the images she saw and the techniques she observed on her visits to Africa: the land, the black night sky, textiles and masks, and observed ceremonies and other events. “I felt very close to that culture,” she said in a 1983 interview. “In reality, I come from that culture. It’s like getting in touch with yourself.”
Bullock produced series made up of multiple works that, she said, allowed her to fully explore a theme. “Jasmine Gardens,” 1976, included one painting and 300 drawings. “Stilt Walkers” was the first series. The others included “Initiation,” “Night Songs,” “Healers,” “Journey,” “Spirit Houses,” “Chasing After Spirits,” and “Bitches Brew.” Some of her works reflected her feelings toward contemporary issues affecting Black people: “Trayvon Martin, Most Precious Blood,” a teen who was killed by a white Neighborhood Watch volunteer in Florida in 2012, “Katrina," the devastating floods left by that hurricane in New Orleans in 2005, and a portrait of George Floyd, who was killed by a white police officer in Minneapolis, MN, in 2020.
She started researching the series “Jasmine Gardens” during the waning days of Ile Ife, she told an interviewer for an exhibit at the Portland Art Museum in 2017. A painting in the series, “Dark Gods,” which showed two thick Black characters intertwined in each other's grasp, evoked controversy because of its erotic nature. The series was inspired by the naturalism she found in Japanese eroticism and the people's openness about love, she said. Although the figures were male and female, some thought they were males. Bullock chose her artist-friend Deryl Mackie as the male model.
Bullock participated in printmaking programs, including the Experimental Printmaking Institute at Lafayette College. In 2017, PAFA held an exhibit titled “A Collaborative Language” of artists who made prints at the institute, and she was included. In 2008, she was also represented in a show at the Hammonds House Museum in Atlanta of works from the program. The institute donated Bullock's print “Seeing is Believing (2011)” to Woodmere Art Museum.
Over four decades, Bullock taught art classes in schools, colleges, community centers and for nonprofits. She completed more than 200 artist-in-residences in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Delaware. She conducted mask-making and art classes at local art centers and museums. She trained teachers on integrating art in their school-district curriculums and led classes for inmates in prisons.
In 1978, she was among 18 artists chosen to participate in a Works Progress Administration-style program to employ artists and offer art access to communities. It was conducted under the auspices of the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act and administered by the printmaking Brandywine Workshop. She and the other artists, including Roland Ayers, Bob Thompson, and Cranston Walker, worked at community agencies, community centers and detention centers. Bullock taught classes at Nicetown Boys and Girls Club.
As an artist-in residence, she spent time with elementary and high schools students in several districts, including Shippensburg and York in Pennsylvania, and Sussex in Delaware (where she taught students to paint murals). In Philadelphia, she worked at Prints in Progress, an afterschool printmaking workshop. In New Jersey, she taught art classes from Cape May on the coast to Camden inland. She taught at Arts Horizon where she held classes for students in the Camden (NJ) schools and trained schoolteachers on Rutgers University’s Camden campus. She began making fans while teaching there.
In a five-month residency at the African American Museum in Philadelphia in 1999, she produced a series titled “Journey Series #4, Ethiopia.” It is now part of the museum's collection. She also held a residency at Perkins Center for the Arts in New Jersey.
Bullock exhibited periodically in group shows in the 1960s with other Black artists. It was hard to find white galleries to show their works, she said, noting that Charles Pridgen, Earl Wilke, Leroy Johnson and Joe Bailey were more aggressive at finding venues at galleries, community centers and churches. Black artists also exhibited in private homes. They were members of the National Conference of Artists, and several exhibited at PAFA in an ancillary show during the conference's 1986 meeting in Philadelphia.
In 1966, Bullock joined John Simpson, Walter Edmonds and Percy Ricks in an exhibit titled “Four Negro Artists” at the Philadelphia Gallery. She showed five works, including a portrait titled “The Staple Singers,” along with “Strange Spring” “Mother and Child,” “Father and Child” and “A Dancer’s World.”
The same year she was in an exhibit of works by young Black artists at the William Penn Memorial Museum in Harrisburg. The artists included Moe Brooker, Walter Edmonds, Ellen Powell Tiberino, Leroy Johnson, Charles Pridgen, Percy Ricks, Walter Gill, John Simpson, Maurice Thompkins, Gwendolyn Joyce Daniels, and Tina Lloyd King. Bullock participated in a benefit show at a lawn party for SNCC (Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee) in 1975. Others included Pridgen, Simpson and Robert Moore.
In 1969, she was among 200 Black artists in a premier show sponsored by the Philadelphia School District and the Pennsylvania Civic Center Museum. The show featured some of the top names in the country, including Ellen Powell Tiberino, Horace Pippin, Nancy Elizabeth Prophet, Jacob Lawrence, Benny Andrews, Columbus Knox, Roland Ayers, Romare Bearden, Avel de Knight, Barkley Hendricks, Paul Keene, Raymond Saunders, Louis B. Sloan, Ed Wilson, Henry Ossawa Tanner and Joshua Johnson.
Earlier that year, she was represented in the Afro-American Arts Festival that featured 28 Black artists at the Black Student Union at La Salle College. The artists included Janette E. Banks, Turner Battle, Toni Beavers, Benjamin Britt, Harold Carter, Marilyn Coleman, Quetta Consuella, Eugene Fleming, Roy Gibbs, Humbert Howard, Paul Keene, Louis B. Sloan and Howard N. Watson.
While at Ile Ife, Bullock was included in a show with Ellen Powell Tiberino in 1975. The exhibit consisted of 20 paintings, drawings and soft sculpture by the artists. It was their first joint exhibit. Also in 1975, she participated in “Spirits of Forgotten Ancestors” at the Walnut Street Theater, cosponsored by the Philadelphia Museum of Art's Department of Urban Outreach. It consisted of paintings, prints and jewelry by Black artists, including Avel de Knight, Bill Howell, Peg Alston and Wendy Wilson.
In 1988, the Afro-American Historical and Cultural Museum held a retrospective of Bullock's works. In 2005, she was among 41 Black artists in “Chemistry of Color: The Harold A. and Ann R. Sorgenti Collection of African American Art” at PAFA. The show, featuring works from the 1950s to 2005, was a traveling exhibit. In 2002, she won a $35,000 Leeway Foundation Award and was represented in a 2003 exhibit of award winners at the Philadelphia Art Alliance.
In 2010, Sande Webster Gallery featured her works in a group show of women artists titled "Women's Work: A Group Show" that included artists Martina Johnson-Allen, Maya Freelon, Betsy Casanas, Nannette Acker Clark, Alice Oh, Heather Pieters, Doris Nogueira-Rogers, Marta Sanchez and Kathleen Spicer.
In 2014, La Salle University Art Museum hosted an exhibition titled "Barbara Bullock: Straight Water Blues" and, in 2016, published a book titled “Barbara Bullock: Chasing After Spirits,” edited by Klare Scarborough, with contributions by Leslie King-Hammond, Lewis Tanner Moore, Linda Goss, A.M. Weaver, William R. Valerio, and Nannette Acker Clark.
In 2015, Bullock was among artists in the exhibit “WE SPEAK: Black Artists in Philadelphia, 1920s to 1970s” mounted by Woodmere Art Museum. In 2020, Woodmere's “Africa in the Arts of Philadelphia” featured Bullock, Searles and Twins Seven Seven.
In 2022, the List Gallery at Swarthmore College held an exhibit of selected works in “Ubiquitous Presence,” which included oil paintings, sculptures, book arts, prints, altars and mixed media.
In 2023–2024, Woodmere Art Museum hosted a retrospective exhibition titled "Barbara Bullock: Fearless Vision.” It ran from September 2023 to January 2024.
In 1990, Bullock was commissioned by Philadelphia International Airport to produce artwork. She created three-dimensional collages of dancers titled "Releasing the Energy, Balancing the Spirit."
She created “Journey Series #4, Ethiopia” in 1999 for the African American Museum in Philadelphia, commissioned by Chivas Regal as part of its Perspectives program. In 2004, she produced a commemorative poster for the 30th anniversary of the Odunde Festival in Philadelphia. In 2008, she was commissioned by Philadelphia's SEPTA Art in Transit for a work that was installed at the 46th Street Station on the Market-Frankford Line. It is titled "El Dancers."
Philadelphia Civic Center Museum, 1969, 1981
La Salle University, Black Student Union, 1969
Off the Wall Gallery, Dirty Frank's Bar, 1980, 1981
Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, 1986, 2005, 2017
African American Museum in Philadelphia, 1988, 2002
Woodmere Art Museum, 2008, 2014, 2015, 2018, 2020, 2023
Atrium gallery, Morris County Administration and Records Building (NJ), 2015
Zimmerli Art Museum, Rutgers University, 2022
Charles H. Wright Museum of African American History, Detroit
Lewis Tanner Moore Collection of African American Art
Petrucci Family Foundation Collection of African American Art
Chivas Regal's Perspectives program (collage for African American Museum in Philadelphia)
BAIA Studio Visit: Barbara Bullock Archived 2022-02-07 at the Wayback Machine video
Bartolomeu Lourenço de Gusmão (December 1685 – 18 November 1724) was a Portuguese Catholic priest and naturalist born in colonial Brazil, who was a pioneer of lighter-than-air aerostat design, being among the first scholars at that time to understand the operational principles of the hot air balloon and to build a functional prototype of such a device. He is also one of the main characters in Nobel Prize-winning José Saramago's Baltasar and Blimunda.
Gusmão was born at Santos, then part of the Portuguese colony of Brazil.
He began his novitiate in the Society of Jesus at Bahia when he was about fifteen years old, but left the order in 1701. He went to Portugal and found a patron at Lisbon in the person of the Marquis of Abrantes. He completed his course of study at the University of Coimbra, devoting his attention principally to philology and mathematics, but received the title of Doctor of Canon Law (related to Theology). He is said to have had a remarkable memory and a great command of languages.
In 1709, he presented a petition to King John V of Portugal, seeking royal favour for his invention of an airship, in which he expressed the greatest confidence. The contents of this petition have been preserved, together with a picture and description of his airship. Developing the ideas of Francesco Lana de Terzi, S.J., Gusmão wanted to spread a huge sail over a boat-like body like the cover of a transport wagon; the boat itself was to contain tubes through which, when there was no wind, air would be blown into the sail by means of bellows. The vessel was to be propelled by the agency of magnets which were to be encased in two hollow metal balls. The public test of the machine, which was set for 24 June 1709, did not take place.
It is known that Gusmão was working on this principle at the public exhibition he gave before the Court on 8 August 1709, in the hall of the Casa da Índia in Lisbon, when he propelled a small balloon to the roof using combustion from a flame. The king rewarded the inventor by appointing him to a professorship at Coimbra and made him a canon. He was also one of the fifty selected as members of the Academia Real de História, founded in 1720; and in 1722 he was made chaplain to the Court. Gusmão also busied himself with other inventions, but in the meantime continued his work on his airship schemes, the idea for which he is said to have conceived while a novice at Bahia. His designs included a ship to sail in the air consisting of a triangular gas-filled pyramid, but he died without making progress.
One account of Gusmão's work suggests that the Portuguese Inquisition forbade him to continue his aeronautic investigations and persecuted him because of them, but this is probably a later invention. It dates, however, from at least the end of the 18th century, as the following article in the London Daily Universal Register (later The Times) of 20 October 1786, makes clear:
By accounts from Lisbon we are assured, that in consequence of the experiments made there with the Montgolfier balloon, the literati of Portugal had been incited to make numerous researches on the subject; in consequence of which they pretend that the honour of the invention is due to Portugal. They say that in 1720, a Brazilian Jesuit, named Bartholomew Gusmao, possessed of abilities, imagination, and address, by permission of John V. fabricated a balloon in a place contiguous to the Royal Palace, and one day, in presence of their Majesties, and an immense crowd of spectators, raised himself, by means of a fire lighted in the machine, as high as the cornice of the building; but through the negligence and want of experience of those who held the cords, the machine took an oblique direction, and, touching the cornice, burst and fell.
The balloon was in the form of a bird with a tail and wings. The inventor proposed to make new experiments, but, chagrined at the raillery of the common people, who called him wizzard, and terrified by the Inquisition, he took the advice of his friends, burned his manuscripts, disguised himself, and fled to Spain, where he soon after died in an hospital.
They add, that several learned men, French and English, who had been at Lisbon to verify the fact, had made enquiries at the Carmelite monastery, where Gusmao had a brother, who had preserved some of his manuscripts on the manner of constructing aerostatic machines. Various living persons affirm that they were present at the Jesuit's experiments, and that he received the surname of Voador, or Flying-man.
Contemporary documents do attest that information was laid before the Inquisition against Gusmão, but on quite another charge. The inventor fled to Spain and fell ill of a fever, of which he died in Toledo. He wrote: Manifesto summário para os que ignoram poderse navegar pelo elemento do ar (Short Manifesto for those who are unaware that is possible to sail through the element air, 1709); and Vários modos de esgotar sem gente as naus que fazem água (Several ways of draining, without people, ships that leak water, 1710); some of his sermons also have been printed.
In 1936, the Bartolomeu de Gusmão Airport was built in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, by the Luftschiffbau Zeppelin to operate with the rigid airships Graf Zeppelin and Hindenburg. In 1941, it was taken over by the Brazilian Air Force and renamed Santa Cruz Air Force Base. Presently, the airport serving Araraquara is named Bartolomeu de Gusmão Airport.
Adelir Antônio de Carli, aka Padre Baloeiro, a Brazilian priest who died during an attempt at cluster ballooning in 2008
Daily Universal Register (The Times), Friday, Oct 20, 1786; p. 2; Iss. 560; col C
Gusmao, Bartolomeu de. Reproduction fac-similé d'un dessin à la plume de sa description et de la pétition adressée au Jean V. (de Portugal) en langue latine et en écriture contemporaine (1709) retrouvés récemment dans les archives du Vatican du célèbre aéronef de Bartholomeu Lourenco de Gusmão "l'homme volant" portugais, né au Brésil (1685–1724) précurseur des navigateurs aériens et premier inventeur des aérostats. 1917 (Lausanne : Impr. Réunies S.A.) in French and Latin.
Bartolomeu Lourenço de Gusmão 1685–1724 "Translated from the article which appeared on the Bartolomeu Lourenço de Gusmão page of the Brazilian Air Force website."
Murovane (Ukrainian: Муроване; Polish: Murowane), formerly Liashky Murovani (Ukrainian: Ляшки Муровані; Polish: Laszki Murowane) is a village in Ukraine, in Lviv Raion within Lviv Oblast. It is part of Murovane rural hromada, and it has a population of 4,630 (as of 2023).
Murovane was first mentioned in 1454, and was historically dominated by a local vegetable farming industry. In 1939, according to Volodymyr Kubijovyč, the village had a population of 1,320. Of this population, 1,090 were Ukrainians, 200 were Polish people (including 80 Osadniks), 20 were Latynnyky, and ten were Jews.
In the present day, there remains a moderately-sized Polish community in Murovane; according to the Encyclopedia of Modern Ukraine, Poles comprise around 5% of the population, as of 2001.
Petro Orlovskyi, Armed Forces of Ukraine soldier killed during the Battle of Debaltseve
Volodymyr Petryshyn, Ukrainian-American mathematician
Ivan Siiak, Ukrainian-Soviet revolutionary and military commander
Ostap Siiak, Ukrainian conductor and politician
Ihor Yavorskyi, Ukrainian former footballer and football manager
The Adventures of Sajo and her Beaver People is a children's adventure novel, written and illustrated by the English-born Canadian trapper-turned-conservationist Archibald Stansfeld Belaney under the name Grey Owl. It was based on his experience of raising two beaver kits with his First Nations wife Anahareo. The novel was first published in 1935 in Great Britain by Lovat Dickson & Thompson Limited. With the title Sajo and the Beaver People it was published by Macmillan of Canada in the same year. Publication with the same title by Charles Scribner's Sons in the United States followed in 1936. The book has been translated into many languages.
Sajo, a young Indian girl, and her older brother, Shapian, adopt two orphaned beaver kits, Chilawee and Chikanee. The children have lost their mother, and the father, Big Feather, must leave them for a time to pay off a debt to the "Company" by working in a "canoe brigade". With no money to support them while he is away, he trades Chikanee for provisions. The beaver is then sold to an amusement park in the city.
Distraught, the children decide to travel to the city with Chilawee and try to rescue Chikanee. They first travel by canoe through a terrifying forest fire to Rabbit Portage, a frontier town on the railroad. There they are befriended by a missionary, who is presented as a "white brother to the Indians". He takes up a collection among the tourists and residents of the town to raise money for their train tickets. Arriving in the city, they encounter Pat O'Reilly, an Irish policeman, who helps them locate Chikanee and persuade the park owner to release the beaver to them. To their great joy, Chilawee and Chikanee were reunited: "And there, before all those people, they began to wrestle."
The book contains illustrations by Grey Owl, among them the following:
The Adventures of Sajo and her Beaver People at Faded Page (Canada)
Sajo & the Beaver People at GoodReads.com
David L. Starling (c. 1949 – February 24, 2023) was an American businessman and railroad executive, best known for running the Kansas City Southern Railroad.
After growing up in Booneville, Arkansas, Starling began his career as a railroader in 1967 on the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad depot two blocks from his house. After attending college, he went to work in 1971 for the St. Louis–San Francisco Railway as a clerk telegrapher. He entered dispatcher training in 1973 in the consolidated training office in Springfield, Missouri, later taking management training and becoming an assistant trainmaster in Memphis, Tennessee, where he worked for Hunter Harrison. When the Burlington Northern Railroad purchased the railroad in 1980, he became Director of Trains and Terminals for his region; as part of his work, he first met Mike Haverty, who he would later succeed as President and CEO of Kansas City Southern.
In 1984, he joined Mi-Jack Products and, working for Jack Lanigan, started up In-Terminal Services. In 1988, he became a managing director for American President Lines, first managing stack trains in the Chicago region, then for the Southern region, headquartered in Atlanta, which managed double-stack trains crossing the Mexican border for, among other customers, Ford and Chrysler. After overseas posts in the Philippines and Hong Kong, he was recruited to work on the Panama Canal Railway rehabilitation project, which Lanigan and Haverty were working on as well; he moved to Panama in 1999, and construction finished in July 2001.
Starling became President of the Kansas City Southern in 2008. In 2010, he took over as CEO from Mike Haverty, effective August 1. The transition occurred just as the company suffered a major 23-day outage along a mainline in Mexico due to Hurricane Alex.
In 2012, he was named Railroader of the Year by Railway Age. He stepped down as President on March 1, 2015, and as CEO on July 1, 2016, handing control to Patrick J. Ottensmeyer.
Starling died on February 24, 2023, at the age of 73.
Seán Justin Barrett (born 4 May 1940) is a British actor.
Barrett began his career as a child actor, appearing on BBC children's television and in films such as Bang! You're Dead, Dunkirk, Sink the Bismarck!, A Cry from the Streets, War and Peace, The Genie and Four Sided Triangle.
Years later he made many appearances in television and films including ITV Television Playhouse, Z-Cars, The Wednesday Play, Cast a Giant Shadow, Emergency Ward 10, Chronicle, Armchair Theatre, Hell Boats, Moonstrike, Attack on the Iron Coast, Softly, Softly, BBC Play of the Month, Paul of Tarsus, Tales of the Unexpected, Father Ted, Holby City, Brush Strokes, Minder, Poldark, Noah's Ark and Theatre 625.
In 1968, Barrett was asked to join BBC Radio Drama by Ronald Mason.
In the mid-1970s Barrett was cast in the BBC Radio series of George Simenon's Inspector Maigret novels as Maigret's subordinate, Inspector Janvier. He has performed the voices of Asterix, Caius Tiddlius, Fulliautomatix, Roman Ghost, Cylindric, Mannikinpix, Gladiator Trainer and Jailer in the English version of The Twelve Tasks of Asterix, Tik-Tok in Return to Oz, a Goblin in Labyrinth, Big Mac and other characters in TUGS, Thadius Vent's soothsayer Goodtooth in Oscar's Orchestra, Melchoir in the English dubbed version of the Lapitch the Little Shoemaker TV series, Roly the Pineapple in the English version of The Fruities and UrSu the Dying Master and UrZah the Ritual-Guardian in The Dark Crystal as well as additional characters in two video games The Feeble Files and Viking: Battle for Asgard. He also provided the voice for Captain Orion in Star Fleet, the English version of the 1980s Japanese puppet series X-Bomber.
He also narrated Fair Ground!, Timewatch, People's Century and Dark Towers for BBC, dubbed voices in many anime films such as Roujin Z, Cyber City Oedo 808 and Dominion: Tank Police and has done voices for several audiobooks and radio stations.
In 1996, he was the narrator for the Channel 4 documentary series, Black Box. The series primarily concentrated on commercial aviation accidents, and the investigations related to them.
Barrett also worked as part of an ADR Loop Group on Aardman's animated film Flushed Away, a voice director on Lapitch the Little Shoemaker and a dialogue director on The Fruities. He has also narrated episodes of the BBC TV series People's Century and Dancing in the Street, as well as a number of BBC nature documentaries in the late 1990s and early 2000s.
In 2011, he voiced Andre of Astora, Petrus of Thorolund and Ingward in Dark Souls. He returned to voice Darkdiver Grandahl in Dark Souls II, and later reprised his role as Andre of Astora in Dark Souls III, as well as voicing Holy Knight Hodrick. In 2017, he voiced the Titan Azurda in Xenoblade Chronicles 2 and in 2018, reprised the role for Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna – The Golden Country.
He has voiced the first nine books of Mick Herron's "Slough House" series about Jackson Lamb's team.
In 1985, the rock band The Smiths used a still of Barrett as a teenager in the 1958 film Dunkirk for the sleeve of their hit single How Soon Is Now?
Sink the Bismarck! (1960) – Able Seaman Brown
Cast a Giant Shadow (1966) – Junior British Officer
Attack on the Iron Coast (1968) – Radio Man (uncredited)
Great Catherine (1968) – Andrei Strelkin (uncredited)
Hell Boats (1970) – Sub. Lt. Hendrickson, R.N.V.R.
The Dark Crystal (1982) – UrSu the Dying Master, UrZah the Ritual-Guardian (voices)
Beneath Still Waters (2005) – Additional voices (English and Spanish dub)
Stranger in the House (1953) – Peter Benfield
BBC Sunday-Night Theatre (1953–1956) – Richard Miller, Jimmy Sheelan
Rheingold Theatre (1953–1956) – Tony Belfont, Timothy Mulligan, Brian
Johnnie's Night Out (1954) – Johnnie O'Hanlon
The Adventures of the Big Man (1956) – Tom Lomas
ITV Play of the Week (1959) – Ordinary seaman Frank Conway, Paul Legrand
The Flying Doctor (1959) – Malcolm Parker
Armchair Theatre (1959–1962) – Ralph, Clifford Ross
Z-Cars (1962–1965) – Ashworth, Alan Guest, Arthur Carron
Theatre 625 (1964–1968) – Albino, Capt. Dakers
Thirty-Minute Theatre (1967–1971) – Danny, Mike
Mighty Jack (1968) – Father, Interrogator (voices, English)
Look and Read: Dark Towers (1981) – Narrator
Star Fleet (1982) – Captain Orion (voice)
Look and Read: Through The Dragon's Eye (1989) – Gorwen the Dragon (voice)
TUGS (1989) – Big Mac, Hercules, Captain Zero, Zebedee, Izzy Gomez, Fire Chief, Sea Rogue, and Blair (voice)
The Twelve Tasks of Asterix (1976) – Asterix, Caius Tiddlius, Fulliautomatix, Roman Ghost, Cylindric, Mannikinpix, Gladiator Trainer, Jailer, Verses
Secret of Mamo (1978) – Koichi Zenigata (1996 Manga UK dub)
Goodbye Lady Liberty (1989) – Koichi Zenigata
Asterix and the Big Fight (1989) – Fulliautomatix, Legionnaires (British dub)
Cyber City Oedo 808 (1990) – Gogul (Gabimaru Rikiya)
The Heroic Legend of Arslan (1991) – Silver Mask
Dominion: Tank Police (1992) – Lt. Britain
New Dominion Tank Police (1993) – Lt. Britain
Lapitch the Little Shoemaker (2000) – Melchoir
Azur & Asmar: The Princes' Quest (2006) – Le Sage Yadoa
Mr. Baby (2009–10) – Mr. Baby, English dub
The Feeble Files (1998) – Additional voices
Viking: Battle for Asgard (2008) – Additional voices
Dark Souls (2011) – Andre of Astora, Petrus of Thorolund, Ingward
Dark Souls II (2014) – Darkdiver Grandahl
Risen 3: Titan Lords (2014) – Additional voices
Dark Souls III (2016) – Holy Knight Hodrik, Blacksmith Andre
Total War: Warhammer (2016) – The Advisor
Total War: Warhammer II (2017) – The Advisor
Xenoblade Chronicles 2 (2017) – Azurda / Gramps
Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna ~ The Golden Country (2018) – Azurda
Super Smash Bros. Ultimate (2018) – Azurda
Total War: Warhammer III (2022) – The Advisor
His Dark Materials – Lord Asriel/ Iorek Byrnison
Bleak House by Charles Dickens – One of two narrators with Teresa Gallagher
Barnaby Rudge by Charles Dickens – Narrator
Terrorism and Communism: A Reply to Karl Kautsky by Leon Trotsky – Narrator
The Holy Qur'an translated by Wahiduddin Khan – Narrator
Muhammad: His Life Based on the Earliest Sources by Martin Lings – Narrator
The Left Hand of God by Paul Hoffman – Narrator
Of Human Bondage by W. Somerset Maugham -Narrator
A Passion for Killing by Barbara Nadel – Narrator
The Unnamable by Samuel Beckett – Narrator
The Long Glasgow Kiss by Craig Russell – Narrator
The Deep Dark Sleep by Craig Russell – Narrator
Dead Men and Broken Hearts by Craig Russell – Narrator
The Second World War by Antony Beevor – Narrator
Berlin: The Downfall 1945 by Antony Beevor – Narrator
Arnhem: The Battle for the Bridges, 1944 by Antony Beevor – Narrator
Ardennes 1944: Hitler's Last Gamble by Antony Beevor – Narrator
The Battle for Spain by Antony Beevor – Narrator
Secret Warriors by Taylor Downing – Narrator
Toward the Flame by Dominic Lieven – Narrator
Young Stalin by Simon Sebag Montefiore – Narrator
Watching you by Michael Robotham- Narrator
The Age of Iron Trilogy by Angus Watson – Narrator
Close your eyes by Michael Robotham – Narrator
West of West Trilogy by Angus Watson- Narrator
Slow Horses (Slough House Book 1) by Mick Herron – Narrator
Dead Lions (Slough House Book 2) by Mick Herron – Narrator
The List (A Slough House Novella, Book 2.5) by Mick Herron – Narrator
Real Tigers (Slough House Book 3) by Mick Herron – Narrator
Spook Street (Slough House Book 4) by Mick Herron – Narrator
London Rules (Slough House Book 5) by Mick Herron – Narrator
The Drop (A Slough House Novella, Book 5.5) by Mick Herron – Narrator
Joe Country (Slough House Book 6) by Mick Herron – Narrator
The Catch (A Slough House Novella, Book 6.5) by Mick Herron – Narrator
Slough House (Slough House Book 7) by Mick Herron – Narrator
Bad Actors (Slough House Book 8) by Mick Herron – Narrator
The Secret Hours by Mick Herron – Narrator
William Bassett (1507 – 10 March 1586) was an Anglo-Welsh gentleman and parliamentarian from Glamorgan, Wales.
His family had been settled in Glamorgan since the 13th century.
He was the first son of William Bassett of Beaupré and Margaret Fleming, daughter of William Fleming of Flemingston.
During the Protestant Reformation there was some hostility to the supposed curative powers of the springs of Buxton, supposed to derive from some spiritual agency.
Bassett's father wrote from Langley to Lord Thomas Cromwell saying that he had sealed up the baths and wells and awaited instructions.
The prohibition does not seem to have lasted long.
William married Catherine Mansell (died 1593), daughter of Sir Rice Mansel of Margam, from another parliamentary family.
They had at least three sons and two daughters.
William Bassett was a Justice of the Peace in Glamorgan from 1561 and Sheriff of Glamorgan in 1557–58 among other offices.
He was Knight of the Shire in the 1563–67 and 1571 parliaments.
He owned various properties in Glamorgan and Gloucestershire including the manors of Saint Hilary, Tregrove and Llantrithyd, and the advowsons of Penmark, Landore and Cardiff.
William Bassett died on 10 March 1586 aged 80, leaving most of his property to his eldest son Arnold Bassett.
His wife, Katheryne, died on 10 March 1593 at the age of 80.
It is said that the bard Meurig Dafydd once presented a praise poem to Bassett.
Bassett read the poem, confirmed that it was the only copy, paid the bard, rebuked him for his unsatisfactory work and threw the manuscript into the hall fire, saying, "By my honestie I swere yf there bee no copie of this extante, none shall there ever bee."
Ofentse Mwase is a South African director, filmmaker and the founder of Ofentse Mwase Films. Born and raised in Rustenburg, North West, Mwase studied film and cinematography at AFDA, The School for the Creative Economy.
Ofentse Mwase was born in Rustenburg, North West, South Africa. His filmmaking interest began in 2005. In 2009, he shot a Short film iGolide, and received a nomination for Best Cinematographer of 2010.
Two years later, in 2011 he shot The Hajji short film, which was nominated for Best Cinematography at AFDA. Mwase won Best Cinematography for a TV Drama Tjovitjo at the SAFTA’s annual ceremony in 2018. Same year he also shot Thato, a Sterkinekor, which won Silver Loerie at the 2011 Loerie Awards.
In 2017, Ofentse directed a Music Video for Ameni by Miss Pru featuring Sjava, A-Reece, Emtee, Fifi Cooper, Saudi and B3nchmarq which went on to win his 1st SAMA (South African Music Awards) for Music Video Of the Year 2017. He shot his first feature film Collision directed by Fabien Martorell, which will premier on June 16, 2022 on Netflix.
"Immortal, Invisible, God Only Wise" is a Christian hymn with words by the Free Church of Scotland minister, Walter Chalmers Smith, usually sung to the tune, "St. Denio", originally a Welsh ballad tune, which became a hymn (under the name "Palestrina") in Caniadau y Cyssegr ("Hymns of the Sanctuary", 1839) edited by John Roberts (Welsh bardic name: Ieuan Gwyllt) (1822–1877). Of this hymn, musicologist Erik Routley has written:
"[Immortal, Invisible] should give the reader a moment's pause. Most readers will think they know this hymn, the work of another Free Kirk minister. But it never now appears as its author wrote it, and a closer look at it in its fuller form shows that it was by no means designed to be one of those general hymns of praise that the parson slams into the praise-list when he is in too much of a hurry to think of anything else but a hymn about the reading of Scripture. Just occasionally editorial tinkering changes the whole personality of a hymn; it has certainly done so here."
The text and tune at Oremus Hymnal Archived 2010-03-15 at the Wayback Machine
Kangarilla is a small rural town and locality around 33 km (21 mi) from Adelaide city centre, in South Australia. The area, formerly inhabited by Kaurna people, was settled by Europeans in 1840, not long after the British colonisation of South Australia. Today it lies within the City of Onkaparinga local government area, and has postcode 5157. At the 2016 census, Kangarilla had a population of 896.
The land on which Kangarilla was settled by Europeans was formerly inhabited by the Kaurna people, who called it Kangkarrilla. Manning's Index reports that Norman Tindale thought that kanggarila may mean "birthplace", and that it was spelt "Kungirilla" in The South Australian on 17 March 1843. Ngarrindjeri man David Unaipon was recorded as saying that Kang means "two" and Ra'mulia means "outflow or water flowing", referring to two waterholes, but more recent sources have variously reported that the meaning in the Kaurna language is "a place where something is nurtured", and possibly "a place with abundant resources", "place of rest with water and trees", and "shepherding place".
The land around Kangarilla was first settled in around 1840, with wheat and vineyards the main produce. A town was founded in 1849 by John Bottrill, and properly surveyed in 1860 on section 875 in the Hundred of Kuitpo, named Scaldwell. It was later called Eyre Flat or Eyre's Flat, and the name Kangarilla may have originally been the name given to the creek which ran through the area. The name Eyre's Flat stopped being used in the 1870s, when the area started to be referred to as Kangarilla.
The historic settlement of Dashwood Gully (also known as Dashwoods Gully) existed within the present-day bounded locality of Kangarilla. It was named for George Frederick Dashwood, who settled there in 1841 and was appointed as a member of the South Australian parliament in 1843. The first Dashwood's Gully post office opened in November 1863 and closed in 1867; a second post office opened from December 1871 to December 1930.
Kangarilla lay within the District Council of Willunga from 1853 until December 1997, when it became part of the newly created City of Onkaparinga.
Kangarilla lies around 33 km (21 mi) from Adelaide city centre, close to the Adelaide Hills and at the northern end of the Fleurieu Peninsula. It is regarded as a township in the Australian sense (a small town), although technically also a suburb or locality. It is physically separated from nearby townships by areas of agriculture and viticulture, notably the McLaren Vale area, about a 15-minute drive away.
At the 2016 census, Kangarilla had a population of 896.
The 7th Dallas–Fort Worth Film Critics Association Awards, honoring the best in film for 2001, were given on January 3, 2002.
A Beautiful Mind (Academy Award for Best Picture)
The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring
Amélie (Le fabuleux destin d'Amélie Poulain)
The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring – Andrew Lesnie
Amélie (Le fabuleux destin d'Amélie Poulain) • France
Dallas-Fort Worth Film Critics Association official website
The Cinque Ports Championships was a men's and women's grass court tennis tournament founded in 1902. The event was staged annually at Folkestone Lawn Tennis Club, Folkestone, Kent, England until 1954.
In 1895 the orgiginal Folkestone Lawn Tennis Club was formed. In 1902 the club established the Cinque Ports Championships. The Cinque Ports is an historical grouping of towns located in Kent and Sussex. The tournament was played annually through till 1954 when it was discontinued.
The original club had 14 grass tennis courts and situated on land between Bouverie Road and Shorncliffe Road. In 1914 and 1920 it also hosted Davis Cup matches.
The 2024–25 season was the 127th season in the history of BSC Young Boys, and the club's 24th consecutive season in the Swiss Super League. In addition to the domestic league, the team participated in the Swiss Cup and the UEFA Champions League.
The match schedule was released on 18 June 2024.
The Course de Solidarność et des Champions Olympiques, also known as the Course de la Solidarité Olympique (Polish: Wyścig Solidarności i Olimpijczyków; English: Race of Solidarity and Olympics) is a road bicycle racing stage race held annually in Poland. From 1991 until 1995, it was a race for amateurs, becoming a professional race in 1996. It was classified as a 2.3 event from 2002 to 2004, a 2.1 event on the UCI Europe Tour from 2005 to 2013, and since 2014 as a 2.2 event.
Armidale Secondary College (abbreviated as ASC) is a government-funded co-educational dual modality partially academically selective and comprehensive secondary day school, located in Armidale, New South Wales, Australia.
The school was established in 2019 with the amalgamation of Duval High School and Armidale High School. The school was developed on the old Armidale High School campus. Whilst the new campus underwent construction, the Duval High School Campus was used as a temporary school site from 2019 to 2020.
The school was announced in 2017, with the campus opening in 2021 with a capacity of approximately 1,500 students.
Initially the budget for the new campus was announced to be $65 million, however the final cost ended up at approximately $121 million. It was built by Richard Crookes Constructions which finished construction in October 2020.
The school includes 79 learning spaces, specialist learning spaces, sports courts, car parking, an indigenous garden and a wetlands walk. A multipurpose hall is located on the campus and is stated to be the largest indoor community multi-sport and entertainment facility in the Northern Tablelands.
Situated on the Armidale Secondary College grounds is the Armidale Intensive English Centre which provides intensive English tuition to newly arrived high school aged migrants, refugees and international students. As well as English, subjects such as mathematics, science, HSIE, computer studies, PDHPE and Sport are taught as well. Students are expected to study for 20-40 weeks until they are able to transfer to high school.
List of government schools in New South Wales: A–F
The rear militia was a category of military service in Soviet Russia and the Soviet Union in 1918–1937.
The composition of the rear militia called various so-called "unearned elements" (kulaks, clergy, former nobles, and so on) that were not subject to conscription in combat units of the Red Army, the Armed Forces of the Soviet Union. The rear militia was formed after the introduction of universal conscription in 1918.
In 1937, after changes in the law on universal conscription by Order of the People's Commissariat of Defense No. 020, of February 20, 1937, the rear militia department was reorganized into the Directorate of the Red Army building units.
Initially, the Red Army was formed on a voluntary basis, but soon, in the conditions of the expanding Civil War, the Soviet government turned to a forced recruitment into its ranks. Universal military service was enshrined in the first Soviet Constitution of 1918, article 19 of which reads:
In order to fully protect the achievements of the Great Workers' and Peasants' Revolution, the Russian Socialist Federative Soviet Republic recognizes the duty of all citizens of the Republic to the defense of the socialist Fatherland and establishes a general military duty. The honorable right to defend the revolution in arms is given only to workers; non-labor elements are charged with the discharge of other military duties.
All "non-labor elements" (the so-called disenfranchised) were subject to conscription in the rear militia. During the civil war, the labor militia was used on various military and civilian constructions.
After the end of the civil war in 1923–1924, the deprived were serving conscription in special non-military "service teams".
In 1925, during the implementation of military reform and the general reduction of the armed forces, the existence of such teams was deemed inexpedient. According to the law on compulsory military service, who have been deprived since being called up to military service of their peers, they were subject to mandatory admission to the rear militia. Since in peacetime the creation of parts of the rear militia was not provided for, then those enrolled in the rear militia were subject to a special war tax.
This tax was levied by the financial authorities at a rate of between half and the basic income tax salary and went to the social security fund to help people with disabilities of the civil war. The people enrolled in the rear militia were on a special military account. Instead of the usual registration and military tickets, they were given "white tickets" (white forms were used).
In connection with the forced industrialization, on December 7, 1931, a resolution was adopted by the Central Executive Committee and the Council of People's Commissars of the Soviet Union "On the Use of Labor of Citizens in the Logistics Militia". It stated that part of the rear militia carried out defense-strategic works through the High Council of the National Economy of the Soviet Union, the People's Commissariat of Communications and the Central Administration of Highways and Dirt Roads and Automobile Transport.
The tenure in these parts was set to three years. After this period, the militiamen, "who showed a conscientious attitude to work", should have been restored to the right to vote. It was noted that "the labor regime and political education in the parts of the rear militia should pursue the goal of making non-labor elements useful in all respects citizens of the Soviet Union". The People's Commissariat of Labor of the Soviet Union organized the recruitment and subsequent distribution of militiamen by squads between departments.
As of February 1, 1933, there were about 42,000 people in the offices of units of militiamen of the three commissariats and departments (the People's Commissariat of Heavy Industry, the People's Commissariat of Communication Routes and the Central Highway and Dirt and Road Administration).
On September 27, 1933, by a decree of the Central Executive Committee and the Council of People's Commissars of the Soviet Union “On the rear militia", it was established that "parts of the rear militia are subordinated in all respects to the People’s Commissariat for Military and Naval Affairs. These units are used for defense-strategic works performed by the people's commissariat for military and maritime affairs, as well as by other departments. At the disposal of other departments, parts of the rear militia are provided for work on the basis of contracts annually concluded by the People's Commissariat with the appropriate departments".
It was noted that the militiamen serve for a period of not more than three years, the order of their service is regulated by special statutes in relation to the relevant statutes of the Red Army, "the commanding personnel of the rear militia units are completed from the Red Army commanding staff and considered to be in the Red Army personnel". It was stated that "units of the rear militia are contained on the basis of self-sufficiency at the expense of funds received from the departments (including the Commissariat for Military and Naval Affairs)".
In the process of the adoption of militia units by military people's commissariats from civilian people's commissariats, according to the order of the Revolutionary Military Council of the Soviet Union of October 11, 1933, the Directorate of rear militia was created as part of the Main Directorate of the Red Army.
In January 1934, when the People's Commissariat of Defense reorganized the militia units adopted from civilian commissariats, they numbered 47.3 thousand. In subsequent years, the dynamics of numbers was as follows (on January 1 of each year):
Militiamen worked at the construction of railways, in mines. Their conditions of detention were very difficult. A survey conducted in the spring of 1931 showed that labor camp formations in Prokopyevsk and Anzherka are located in difficult conditions, in damp barracks and built in a hurry. About the nutrition of Prokopyevsk's militiamen, it was said: "While civilian workers have meat soup, for the second cutlets and for the third sweet, the militiamen get cabbage soup, for the second potato with fish".
By order of the People's Commissar of Defense of February 20, 1937, units of the rear militia were reorganized into building units of the Red Army.
Later the Construction Troops (ru:Строительные войска) gained significant importance.
Sergey Krasilnikov. On the breaks of the social structure: marginals in the post-revolutionary Russian society (1917 – the end of the 1930s). Chapter 2. The rear militia as part of marginal groups of the 1930s Archived 2011-01-05 at the Wayback Machine
Kyan Charles Evans (born September 20, 2004) is an American college basketball player for the Minnesota Golden Gophers of the Big Ten Conference. He previously played for the Colorado State Rams and North Carolina Tar Heels.
After a decorated high school and AAU career in the Kansas City area, Evans committed to play college basketball for the Colorado State Rams.
As a freshman in 2023-24, Evans averaged 1.7 points per game in 36 games. Heading into his sophomore season in 2024-25, he became a full-time starter after sitting behind Isaiah Stevens. On December 4, 2024, Evans hit four threes in a victory over Loyola Marymount. On February 25, 2025, he scored 20 points in a victory over Air Force. In the first round of the 2025 NCAA Division I men's basketball tournament, Evans dropped a career-high 23 points and six threes in an upset win over fifth seed Memphis. For his performance during the 2024-25 season, Evans earned all-Mountain West Conference honorable mention. He averaged 10.5 points, 3 rebounds and 3 assists per game. Following the season he transferred to North Carolina. Evans saw his minutes decline as the season progressed for the Tar Heels and transferred to Minnesota after the season.
The Mint Spring Marl is a geologic formation in Mississippi. It preserves fossils dating back to the Paleogene period.
List of fossiliferous stratigraphic units in Mississippi
Various Contributors to the Paleobiology Database. "Fossilworks: Gateway to the Paleobiology Database". Retrieved 17 December 2021.
Reforesting Scotland is a membership organisation concerned with the ecological and social regeneration of Scotland. It aims to significantly increase the forested areas of the country.
Reforesting Scotland is an environmental charity established in 1991. Its founding directors were Bernard Planterose, Emma Planterose, Martin Howard and Donald McPhillimy. Its first development officer was Andy Wightman. In 2008, the organisation received support from Business Stream.
In May 1993, Reforesting Scotland organised a study tour to Hordaland in Norway to examine the Norwegian land use system to inform thinking on the future of land use in Scotland.
In 2011 it launched a campaign - A Thousand Huts - to encourage Scots to build huts for recreational use in woodland.
It is a Scottish charity (number SCO18032).
Reforesting Scotland grew out of the biannual journal The Tree Planter's Guide to the Galaxy launched by the editorial team of Bernard and Emma Planterose, Ron Greer and Martin Howard in the summer of 1989. The journal was renamed Reforesting Scotland from Issue 7 (Autumn 1992). Guest editorials were written by James Hunter, Iain Thomson, Justin Kendrick and Andy Wightman between 1992 and 1994. The journal was edited by Brendan Hill from 1994 to 1996, and by Karen Grant from 1996 to 1998. Mark Ballard was editor from 1999 to 2001. Dr. Mandy Meikle has edited Reforesting Scotland since the autumn of 2002. Regular contributors include Sally Macpherson, Fi Martynoga, Donald McPhillimy, Nick Marshall, Mandy Haggith and Robin Noble.
The 2010 Atlantic Coast Conference football season was the 58th season of Atlantic Coast Conference football. The season started September 2, 2010 and ended January 9, 2011. The twelve conference schools were divided into two divisions. The Virginia Tech Hokies won the Coastal Division while the Florida State Seminoles won the Atlantic Division. On December 4, 2010, the Hokies defeated the Seminoles 44–33 to win the 2010 ACC Championship and the right to represent the conference in the 2011 Orange Bowl, where the Hokies lost 12–40 to the Stanford Cardinal of the Pac-10.
NOTE:. Games with a * next to the home team represent a neutral site game
Protomeroleuca is a monotypic genus of moths of the family Noctuidae. It contains only the species Protomeroleuca perlides from Madagascar.
Berio, E. 1966e. Descrizione di nuove Noctuidae Africane e note sinonimiche. - Annali del Museo Civico di Storia Naturale di Genova 76:110–136.
AW Rostamani Group (AWR) is a privately held company established in 1954 in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, by Al Rostamani brothers, Abdullah and Abdul Wahid. The company is headquartered in Dubai and employs over 4,000 workers. The Group operates in seven diverse sectors: automotive, real estate, logistics, retail, lighting, travel and agritech.
AW Rostamani began in 1951 when Abdul Wahid and his brother Abdullah Hassan, two sons of a local pearl trader, set up a family business on the shore of the Dubai Creek. Inspired by their passion for reading, the Al Rostamani brothers opened Dubai's first bookshop, Al Ahliya Library, in 1954, importing sought-after books from Egypt, Syria, and Lebanon by Gulf Air through Bahrain.
1957 General Trading company is established.
2011 AW Rostamani Arabian Automobiles is the first automotive company in the region to implement a Customer Loyalty Program (Nissan Road Miles). AW Rostamani Trading appointed as the sole distributor of ZNA cars and genuine ZNA parts in Oman.
2015 GE Lighting signs a partnership agreement with AW Rostamani Lumina.
2016 AW Rostamani Lifestyle expands retail stores with the launch of Georg Jensen, Graffiti Fashion Zone and Apartment 51.
2017 AW Rostamani sets up shop for multi brand secondhand cars.
2019 Hilton signs an agreement with AW Rostamani Group to develop a DoubleTree by Hilton hotel in Bur Dubai.
Khalid Abdul Wahid Al Rostamani is the Chairman of AW Rostamani.
Amina Al Rustamani is the Director and Board Member of AW Rostamani Group, and the Chief Executive Officer of AWR Properties.
Since 1990 Michel Ayat heads the Automotive division of AW Rostamani that consists of Arabian Automobiles, AW Rostamani Trading, Certified Pre-owned and Shift Car Rental.
AWR Properties has developed a portfolio of property since 1982. The real estate arm of the Group is split into Property Development, Leasing and Facilities Management of both commercial and residential units alongside retail. It handles over 2.5 million sq. ft. of residential and commercial space in the UAE. It is responsible for the development of the 21st Century Tower on Sheikh Zayed Road and the AW Rostamani head office building in Deira.
Mankhool AWR Properties comprises 327 hotel rooms, ten floors of commercial offices and 182 units of residential rooms. Established properties in the commercial division include vehicle sales showrooms for Nissan, Infiniti and Renault.
Established in 1968, they are the exclusive distributors of Nissan, INFINITI, and Renault, in Dubai and the Northern Emirates. The company operates a large network of showrooms, service centers, spare parts outlets, and a "certified pre-owned division" across Dubai.
A wholly owned subsidiary of the AW Rostamani Group, Prime Honda is the authorised Honda dealer in India.
AW Rostamani Trading, an ISO 9001:2008 certified company, with brands such as TOTAL lubricants, Ceat Tyres, Sava Tyres, Amaron batteries, Fortron Automotive Treatments and XCool heat control films in the UAE.
The fleet currently stands at 13,000 vehicles, supplies Nissan, INFINITI and Renault models on short and long-term lease.
AUTOTRUST is a multi-brand car service company in the UAE that provides repair, service, and sales of certified pre-owned cars. The company operates three workshops, located in Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Sharjah.
AW Rostamani Lifestyle, started in the year 2012. AW Rostamani Lifestyle are into fashion, jewelry and homeware sectors regionally, with a portfolio that includes international and regional brands such as Georg Jensen, Graffiti, Vhernier, Angels, Apartment 51 and American Rag.
AW Rostamani Lifestyle is the Vhernier brand agent in the UAE. Vhernier is an Italian jewellery store.
Launched in Dubai Mall in 2015, Graffiti is a kid's fashion store.
Angels is a designer children's-wear chain with 4 stores in Dubai. They are a multi-brand kids wear concept specializing in luxury garments and accessories for boys and girls.
Georg Jensen A/S (originally Georg Jensens Sølvsmedie A/S) is a Danish designer company with focus on silverware. It was founded by famed silversmith Georg Jensen in 1904. Georg Jensen first store in the UAE was opened in April 2016 at City Walk, Dubai.
American lifestyle multi-brand retail American Rag Cie opened in Dubai Mall in September 2018. The brand's Dubai venture is in partnership with AW Rostamani Lifestyle, exclusive licensee for the MENA region.
The Apartment 51 brand is a concept store in Dubai.
KAR Transport is a land transportation service provider based in Dubai that manages the national and regional supply chain operations for Arabian Automobiles and AW Rostamani Trading. Operating principally in the UAE and the GCC, KAR Transport maintains a network of international partners across the Middle Eastern countries.
Incorporated in 1999, AWR Lumina is a provider of lighting products in UAE. AW Rostamani Lumina delivers lighting products to largescale hospitality, retail and commercial developments with presence in 22 countries across Africa, Middle East, and Asia.
The Pioneer Drum and Bugle Corps was a World Class competitive junior drum and bugle corps from Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Pioneer is a former member corps of Drum Corps International (DCI).
Pioneer traces its roots to the St. Patrick's (Catholic) parish of Milwaukee and its drum and bugle (D&B) corps, the Imperials of St. Patrick, founded in 1961. Both corps had been active in the Milwaukee area and the Midwest region, and both attended the inaugural DCI World Championship prelims in Whitewater, Wisconsin in 1972, with the Imperials of St. Patrick finishing in 19th place and the Thunderbolts in 28th.
By 1973, the Imperials were facing financial difficulties, and the Thunderbolts were having difficulty maintaining support staff, so the two corps merged. This resulted in a 150-member corps—much larger than most drum corps of that time—with financial and staff stability. Unable to decide on a better name and wearing the vastly different uniforms of both corps, the new corps was called "The Thing" during its first season. In 1974, the corps received the sponsorship of the Pioneer Container Corporation and found a name. The Thunderbolts' cadet corps continued, joined by a second "feeder" corps known as Pioneer II. After only a few years, the Thunderbolts' part of the merger departed in favor of the Thunderbolts Cadets, leaving only the Imperials' part in place, bringing about the unit's dropping the Thunderbolts' 1953 founding as its beginning.
While not initially a strong contender, Pioneer became a regular competitor in the Midwest region during the remainder of the 1970s, and in 1978, the corps was one of the founding members of Drum Corps Midwest (DCM) which was to become the premier regional circuit in North America over the next quarter century. In 1985, the primary corps went inactive, and Pioneer II began a transition into becoming Pioneer in 1986. By 1989, Pioneer had started to become a power in Class A60. In 1991, the corps won both the DCM Division III (DIII) title and the DCI Class A60 World Championship; in 1992, they won their 3rd DCM DIII championship but finished second in DCI DIII to the Mandarins.
In 1993 Pioneer moved into Division II (DII), where the corps was an immediate challenger for the championship. The corps was DCM DII champion for four consecutive years, from 1993 to 1996. In 1994, the corps went undefeated and won the DCI DII crown. They defended their DCI title in 1995, but in 1996 fell in finals to Quebec's Les Etoiles by two-tenths of a point. Pioneer moved to Division I (DI) in 1997, and has continued to compete in that division (now known as World Class), where the corps' best finish at the DCI World Championships was 16th place in 2000. Although Pioneer won the DCM DI title in 2004 and 2005, making them the only corps to win DCM titles in 3 divisions, the most prominent corps had abandoned DCM by then, and there were no other competitors for the DI titles.
In 1994, the organization was administratively dissolved by the Wisconsin Department of Financial Institutions. But in 1998, the organization was restored to good standing.
Pioneer celebrated the corps' 50th anniversary during the 2011 season.
During the 2018 season, members and staff of Pioneer sent reports to DCI and posted threads on drum corps forums regarding compliance and administrative issues. These issues included inadequate treatment for health issues and injuries sustained during the season, the organization's executive director making racist and culturally insensitive comments to the corps members as well as jokes about the holocaust, and the organization having unreliable buses with no or inadequate air conditioning during the long southern tour.
On August 16, 2018, DCI suspended Pioneer from all DCI activities while it investigated the organization. The investigation focused on the many issues reported by members and staff, as well as possible retaliation for those who spoke out against Pioneer.
On August 24, 2018, DCI decided that Pioneer would not be allowed to participate in the 2019 season as a condition of its suspension. Following the decision, Pioneer informed DCI that they would move immediately to replace the executive director and all board members of the organization.
On January 10, 2019, DCI voted to revoke Pioneer's membership in DCI. DCI stated that if Pioneer makes operational and administrative improvements, it would be eligible to reapply for open class participation as early as 2020.
On May 17, 2019, Pioneer announced that it will be hosting a weekend-only performance corps. The performance corps was started to be a foundation for Pioneer's plans to compete in WGI.
On October 28, 2019, Pioneer announced that they will be hosting three different winter ensembles, which will all compete in the Winter Guard International circuit. These ensembles consist of a percussion ensemble, winds ensemble, and color guard ensemble. These winter ensembles will have show themes that stray away from being Irish, as a way for the organization to rebrand itself. The percussion ensemble will continue to field a cymbal line, as long as there are still interest and membership.
Pioneer has a tradition of Irish and Celtic influence in its uniforms and musical programs. This and the corps' shamrock logo are a heritage of the Imperials of St. Patrick.
Since the corps' days in Division III, Pioneer's motto has been "Better Every Day". This motto had been used by the Marion (OH) Cadets D&B corps, who in 1990 allowed Pioneer to also use it.
Whether it was a part of the year's musical program or not, from at least the mid-1990s Pioneer concluded each performance by marching off the field and/or "trooping the stands" (marching across the front of the grandstand in parade formation) while playing the traditional Irish air Garryowen (better known as the Garry Owen march). This tradition has occurred less frequently since 2010 but is still performed at parades.
Purchased on St. Patrick's Day in 1993, the "Pioneer Musical Youth Center", better known as "Pioneerland", is a 7 acres (2.8 ha) property in the Milwaukee suburb of Cudahy, Wisconsin, which is the corps' own rehearsal and storage facility.
Ramrod 16 was an attempt by the Royal Air Force (RAF) to bomb the Koninklijke Hoogovens (Royal Blast Furnaces) steelworks at IJmuiden in the Netherlands during the Second World War. After several recent abortive attacks a more elaborate plan was made for six Douglas Boston IIIA light bombers of 107 Squadron to attack again, with a Ramrod as a diversion. (Ramrod was the RAF term for bomber operations intended to induce Luftwaffe fighters into action for British fighter escorts to attack.) Ramrod 16 was to be flown by twelve Lockheed Ventura Mk II bombers of No. 487 Squadron RNZAF against the Hemweg power station in Amsterdam, not far upriver from IJmuiden.
Thirteen Spitfire squadrons from 11 Group, Fighter Command, were to fly Rodeo 212 to Vlissingen (Flushing), 78 mi (126 km) to the south-west of Amsterdam, as another diversion. The Venturas were to be escorted by three squadrons of Spitfires from 12 Group, Fighter Command. Two squadrons of high-flying Spitfire Mk IXs were to wait off the Dutch coast, available for contingencies and eight Mustang fighters were to protect the Bostons on their return from IJmuiden, three more Spitfire squadrons covering the return of the Venturas.
The raid began in the late afternoon of 3 May 1943 but Rodeo 212 arrived early and at height, alerting the Germans. The first three 107 Squadron Bostons missed the IJmuiden steelworks but the second formation obtained direct hits. The Venturas of 487 Squadron got ahead of most of their escort and met an unexpectedly large number of German fighters, the local contingent having, by coincidence, been temporarily reinforced. All but one of the Venturas were shot down before bombing and a German Messerschmitt Bf 109 fighter was shot down by the last Ventura, flown by Squadron Leader Leonard Trent, whose bombs overshot the power station; Trent was shot down moments later.
Morale of the three Ventura squadrons in 2 Group was severely shaken by the losses but 487 Squadron was rebuilt, returned to operations at the end of the month and was re-equipped with de Havilland Mosquitos later in the year. The full story of the raid became known when Trent was repatriated from a German prison camp in 1945. Trent was awarded a Victoria Cross and his navigator, Flight Lieutenant Vivian Phillips, received a Distinguished Service Order.
On 4 September 1939, five out of ten Bristol Blenheim bombers were shot down making low-level attacks on German warships in daylight, along with two out of fourteen Vickers Wellington bombers. On 29 September, five Handley-Page Hampden bombers flew another raid against German warships and all were shot down. Few operations were possible in October and November due to weather but on 3 December, 24 Wellingtons were sent to attack German ships. The Wellingtons were intercepted by German Messerschmitt Bf 109 and Messerschmitt Bf 110 fighters and engaged by German anti-aircraft guns (FlaK); no bombers were lost and one Bf 109 was claimed shot down, later confirmed by German records. On 14 December, Wellingtons made another attack and five were shot down, another crashing in England. On 18 December, 22 Wellingtons attacked again, flying at 10,000 ft (3,000 m) to evade FlaK, thought to be the main cause of recent losses. Flying at higher altitude and taking a longer route to avoid neutral territory, the Wellingtons were easier to detect by German radar. Around 100 German fighters were scrambled to intercept the bombers and the Wellingtons were intercepted by cannon-armed Bf 110s and machine-gun armed Bf 109Ds. In what became known as the Battle of the Heligoland Bight, eleven Wellingtons were shot down, one ditched in the North Sea and six crashed in England. Only one group of Wellingtons had bombed, the other had refrained to avoid civilian casualties; the Germans lost three fighters to return fire.
The extent of the loss "stunned" RAF leaders, exploding their belief that tight formations of bombers, equipped with machine-gun turrets, could defeat attack by day fighters. From January 1940, the Wellington and Hampden day bombers joined the specialist Armstrong-Whitworth Whitley night bombers in flying leaflet-dropping missions over Germany. The Fairey Battle and Blenheim light day bombers of the Advanced Air Striking Force in France and 2 Group in England also devoted considerable time to night-flying training. During the Battle of France the AASF and 2 Group flew day and night sorties, the Battles of the AASF suffering losses of 75 per cent by day from 10 to 14 May and 0.5 per cent by night. During the battle, the AASF lost 137 Battles and 37 Blenheims; 2 Group lost 98 Blenheims.
Following its victory in the Battle of Britain, 1940, Fighter Command began sending fighter squadrons over northern France, Belgium and the Netherlands to engage the Luftwaffe. The policy was known as "Leaning forward into France" and begun by Air Chief Marshal Sholto Douglas, who had replaced Hugh Dowding as Air Officer Commanding in chief Fighter Command on 25 November 1940. From December 1940, 11 Group flew Rhubarbs, raids by two or three fighters attacking targets of opportunity; Rodeos, fighter sweeps over enemy territory without bombers, which the Luftwaffe usually ignored and Circuses, small numbers of bombers from 2 Group, escorted by large numbers of fighters. The objective of the operations was to attack ground targets, destroy any Luftwaffe fighters which opposed the raids and keep them in Western Europe. Ramrods were bomber sorties escorted by fighters, primarily intended to destroy a ground target and inflict losses by the escorts on German fighters trying to intervene.
From December 1940 to June 1941, Fighter Command flew 104 Rhubarbs and eleven Circuses. In Bomber Command only 2 Group still flew day bombers and Operation Barbarossa, the German invasion of the Soviet Union, beginning on 22 June, gave the group added significance. The Luftwaffe withdrew its squadrons from coastal airfields to bases further inland, from where they could decline combat or engage RAF fighters in places where the British fighters were at a tactical disadvantage for lack of fuel. To force the Luftwaffe to transfer fighter units from the Eastern Front and to inflict damage on communications in the west, the offensive over France was increased, Fighter Command devoting about a third of its aircraft to the operations until the end of the year. The effort was a failure, no German fighters being transferred from the USSR to reinforce the two Jagdgeschwader (fighter groups) in the west. The Fighter Command loss was 51 pilots by June 1941 but another 411 were lost by years' end, a greater loss than July to October 1940.
Fighter Command made "enormously exaggerated estimates of German losses", from June to the end of December 1941 claiming 731 Luftwaffe aircraft against a real Luftwaffe loss of 154 aircraft, 51 of which were not lost to RAF action. By late January 1942, Luftwaffe transfers of day fighters and anti-aircraft units had been identified by the British and Ultra decryption of German signals coded with the Enigma machine uncovered the transfer of 30 of the newest German fighter type to the Russian front and 40 from the Pas de Calais to northern Norway for anti-convoy operations. The day offensive resumed on 24 March 1942 and received a vigorous reply from the Luftwaffe; by 19 April, Ultra decrypts had revealed a reinforcement of the western air front, of the 180 single-engined fighters in the Pas de Calais, 120 were the new Focke-Wulf Fw 190, which outclassed the Spitfire Mk V.
By mid-June, Fighter Command had suffered 259 losses for the loss of 58 German fighters, against Fighter Command claims to have destroyed 197. On 6 July, Ultra revealed that the Luftwaffe was struggling to supply aircraft to north Africa, had imposed limits on operations in Russia and ordered a vast increase in fighter output from the Wiener Neustädter Flugzeugwerke, which was taken to mean that the Fighter Command offensive had greatly contributed to the German difficulties. The offensive continued at a lesser rate, to tie down Fw 190 units and to maintain a measure of air superiority along the Channel coast, until the maximum effort during the Dieppe Raid (19 August 1942). In 2 Group, obsolete Blenheim bombers began to be replaced by faster and more versatile Douglas Boston, Lockheed Ventura and de Havilland Mosquito day bombers.
The three squadrons of 2 Group equipped with Douglas Bostons, began replacing their aircraft with new Boston Mk IIIAs in March 1943, flying training sorties and sea search operations. The first squadron to resume offensive operations was 107 Squadron on 1 May; Caen was attacked but the raid was thwarted by cloud cover. On 2 May, 107 Squadron attacked the Koninklijke Hoogovens (Royal Blast Furnaces) steelworks at IJmuiden on the coast, missed the works but hit barges and dock installations nearby. Spitfire Mk IXe fighters of 331 (Norwegian) Squadron claimed three Focke-Wulf Fw 190 fighters. The Venturas of 464 Squadron (Royal Australian Air Force, RAAF) also attacked the steel works, escorted by the Spitfire Vbs of 118 Squadron. The bombers flew the usual wave top height approach over the North Sea then made a battle climb (a fast climb to bombing height). The Venturas received moderate Flak as they attacked, also missed the steelworks but hit the coking works, sulphate plant and other ancillary works, along with three ships, two of which sank. The Venturas were caught 40 nmi (46 mi; 74 km) out on the return journey by FW 190s, which damaged two of the bombers for two FW 190s claimed shot down by the escorts.
Ramrod 16 was another attempt on the IJmuiden steelworks by six Boston IIIAs with a diversion provided by twelve Ventura Mk II bombers of 487 Squadron (Royal New Zealand Air Force, RNZAF) on 3 May. In bright blue skies, sunshine and a warm day, the fourteen crews of 487 Squadron were briefed for the raid at RAF Methwold their base in Norfolk. The crews were told that they were to attack the Hemweg power station (the Papaverweg Powerplant; 52.39786815883844, 4.900222647021094) at the north end of Amsterdam, about 17 mi (28 km) from IJmuiden, to "encourage the Dutch resistance to resist German pressure in Holland and to aid Dutch workmen in organising disobedience". Twelve aircraft were to fly on the operation with three Spitfire squadrons as close escort. The Ventura crews were told to expect determined opposition but to press on at all costs. B Flight, 487 Squadron, led by its commander, Squadron Leader Leonard Trent and the deputy flight commander, Flight Lieutenant A. V. Duffill, was to be followed by A Flight, the result of a coin toss with the A Flight commander, Squadron Leader Jack Meakin. The plan was to bomb at dusk for the Venturas to benefit from the gathering darkness and return under cover night.
The Venturas were to rendezvous over RAF Coltishall at 5:00 p.m. at an altitude lower than 1,000 ft (300 m) with the Spitfire Mk Vs of the close escort comprising 118 Squadron, 167 Squadron and 504 Squadron. The Spitfire Mark IX had a performance similar to that of the Luftwaffe Messersmitt Bf 109G and Focke Wulf 190A fighters but only ten Fighter Command squadrons had been equipped with it by mid-1943, due to shortage of engines and despatches to overseas squadrons. Most domestic Spitfire squadrons were left flying obsolete Mk Vs, restricted to close escort of bombers. The bombers were to fly at 190 kn (350 km/h; 220 mph) Indicated airspeed (IAS) for 33 minutes across the North Sea, keeping below German radar until they were ten minutes from the Dutch coast, then perform a battle climb (fast and steep) at 165 kn (306 km/h; 190 mph) to 10,000 ft (3,000 m) and head straight for the target, to retain a degree of surprise. Fighter Command operations to protect bombers consisted of target support (or forward support) a sweep by fighter squadrons kept available for contingencies, close escort with the bombers, high cover for the close escort and rear support to escort the bombers home and engage any German fighters when the other escorts were low on fuel and ammunition.
Target support was to be provided by the Supermarine Spitfire Mk IXbs of 122 Squadron and 453 Squadron RAAF flying a sweep along the coast west of the Ventura approach route. Thirteen fighter squadrons from 11 Group were to fly Rodeo 212 towards Vlissingen (Flushing) on the island of Walcheren to the south-west as a diversion. Rear support (waiting just off the coast) by three Spitfire squadrons to protect the Venturas on their return journey was to arrive in relays and orbit (circle) west of Zandvoort; seven Spitfire Vbs and Vcs of 302 (Polish) Squadron were to arrive at 5:30 p.m., returning at 6:55 p.m., twelve Spitfire Vbs of 306 (Polish) Squadron were to take over at 5:25 p.m. departing at 7:00 p.m. and twelve Spitfires of 308 (Polish) Squadron arriving from 5:20 p.m., were to turn for home at 6:50 p.m. Two relays of 613 Squadron Mustang Mk Is were to cover the withdrawal of 107 Squadron, four Mustangs arriving at 5:00 p.m. and returning at 6:40 p.m., the second four arriving at 5:15 p.m. and turning for home at 6:55 p.m.
The twelve Venturas took off from RAF Methwold at 4:43 p.m. in clear weather but after five minutes Q-Queenie, flown by Sergeant A. G. Baker, turned back due to a fault with the escape hatch. The eleven remaining Venturas rendezvoused a few minutes later with the Spitfire escorts of the Coltishall Wing over RAF Coltishall nearer the coast. The Bostons of 464 Squadron also set off from Coltishall, flying much lower than the Venturas. Trent led the first six Venturas in a tight box formation, with the second group, led by Meakin, following. Thirteen fighter squadrons from 11 Group flying Rodeo 212 got their timing wrong and arrived at Vlissingen, 78 mi (126 km) to the south-west of Amsterdam, thirty minutes early, appearing on German radar and alerting the German fighter units. The Target Support Spitfire Mk IXbs of 122 Squadron and 453 Squadron RAAF were recalled at 5:30 p.m. when at 27,000 ft (8,200 m), 30 nmi (35 mi; 56 km) west of Zandvoort.
By coincidence, the Luftwaffe fighters in the Netherlands had been reinforced during a visit to Haarlem by the Reichskommissar of the Netherlands, Arthur Seyss-Inquart. A Luftwaffe conference was scheduled for that day at Schiphol airfield near Amsterdam and a great number of experienced fighter pilots were in attendance from other parts of the Western Front. The six Boston IIIAs of 107 Squadron had taken off at 4:52 p.m. and around 5:53 p.m. bombed the IJmuiden steel works in two vic formations of three aircraft each, the first vic hitting the ancillary switch and transformer stations, despite making their bomb runs at "nought feet". Bf 109 fighters and Fw 190 fighters intercepted the first vic as it re-crossed the coast but the evasive action of the Bostons enabled them to escape without loss. The second vic, attacking through intense FlaK released their bombs and hit the steel works, turned for home and ran into the German fighters, which shot down BZ227, the Boston flown by Flight Sergeant F. S. Harrop in flames; the other two Bostons escaped, noting a Ventura coming down in the water, apparently lost with all hands.
The eleven Venturas climbed at 5:35 p.m. just before reaching the Dutch coast with the three close escort Spitfire VB squadrons but 504 Squadron lagged by 3 nmi (3.5 mi; 5.6 km). When the bombers reached 12,000 ft (3,700 m) the target was visible ahead in the clear sky. As a precaution against a possible British attack on Seyss-Inquart, the German fighters were ordered off the ground and climbed at about the same time as the Venturas. German fighters were scrambled at 5:20 p.m. from Woensdrecht Airfield and were vectored to intercept the incoming formation off the coast. The German fighters included 24 Fw 190 fighters from II.Gruppe (2nd Group) of Jagdgeschwader 1 (JG 1, 1st Fighter Wing) and eight Bf 109 fighters from 2. Staffel (2nd Squadron) of Jagdgeschwader 27 (JG 27, 27th Fighter Wing). The fighters were led by Hauptmann (Captain) Dietrich Wickop, the Gruppenkommandeur (group commander) of II./JG 1.
Over the coast more than twenty German fighters from the three Staffeln of II./JG 1 fell on 504 and 167 squadrons of the close escort as thirty more headed for the Venturas. The Spitfires of 504 Squadron were still climbing when Fw 190s swept overhead and cut them off from the Venturas. The commander of the Coltishall Wing, Wing Commander Howard "Cowboy" Blatchford, tried to warn the bombers but they had already been surrounded by German fighters. A dog-fight began with Fw 190s diving on 167 Squadron; 504 Squadron, still climbing in the rear, did a 360° turn to lure the Fw 190s to no avail; 118 Squadron got as far as the west end of Amsterdam and was credited with two Fw 190s, 167 Squadron another. Blatchford's Spitfire was badly damaged and he came down in the sea 40 nmi (46 mi; 74 km) off Mundesley; his body was never found.
The Ventura flown by Duffill was one of the first to be hit; cannon-fire destroyed the hydraulics, set both engines alight and seriously wounded the two gunners, after one had claimed a fighter. Duffill turned for home, followed by two A Flight Venturas, which were quickly shot down. Attacked by German fighters until well out over the North Sea, Duffill managed to keep the Ventura airborne and the navigator jettisoned the bombs. The fires died down and Duffill reached Methwold to land safely (the gunners were rushed to Ely Hospital and the crew was awarded immediate decorations). Within minutes of crossing the coast the Venturas were reduced to five aircraft; Flying Officer O. E. Foster was the pilot of one of the five aircraft left to begin the bomb run.
Foster saw the two Venturas in front of his aircraft explode and moments later his Ventura was hit and the bomb doors fell off, followed by the bombs. Foster turned for home and his Ventura was hit by anti-aircraft fire, which knocked out the starboard engine. Foster dived to avoid the German fighters but the ammunition containers for his forward-firing guns began to explode and blew the nose off. The navigator, Flying Officer T. A. Penn, was badly wounded and the rear gunner, Flight-Sergeant T. W. J. Warner was mortally wounded but got forward to report that his turret was out of action before he died. Foster managed to pull the Ventura out of a dive towards a harbour, only to find that he was in the middle of a German convoy. Foster cleared the ships but his controls were damaged and he could barely keep the Ventura in the air as he re-crossed the Dutch coast. The Ventura was leaking fuel and Foster ordered ditching stations; the port engine failed and the Ventura crashed into the sea and quickly sank. Foster, Penn and the wireless operator Sergeant R. W. Mann struggled out of the submerged aircraft. One of the crew recounted,
The dinghies were all damaged by cannon fire when we hit the sea. It was a terrible struggle to keep afloat. At first I could only get one glove and my helmet off, but after a struggle got one flying boot off and then after a considerable time managed to shake the second one away. All the time, I was screaming for help and can remember crying like a baby because I was too young to die. Goodness knows who I expected to hear us. Paddled away to keep afloat until I got terrible pains, but as soon as I stopped paddling sank and after a time I got so that my arms would not stop. After what seemed an age, one of the boys shouted that a boat was coming straight towards us. The next thing I recall is waking up in the engine room with a German officer staring at me and then blank again until I came to in hospital.
The German patrol boat picked up the three survivors a couple of hours after the crash.
The last four Venturas were met by massed anti-aircraft fire while still under attack by the Bf 109s which followed them into the FlaK. One of the German fighters overshot the Venturas and crossed in front Trent, giving him a chance to fire at it with his fixed twin .303 in (7.7 mm) nose guns. The Messerschmitt was caught by the short burst and was seen to go down in flames. Trent later said he was surprised the German pilots would pursue them through such heavy FlaK. Approaching the target at 7,000 ft (2,100 m), Trent saw his wingman shot down, followed directly by the other two aircraft. Pressing on to the target, Trent released his bombs and turned for home but as he did so his aircraft was hit again, went into a sharp spin and broke apart. Trent and his navigator, Flight Lieutenant Vivian Phillips, were thrown clear of the wreckage in mid-air and pulled their parachute ripcords but the other two crew members were unable to get free and died when the Ventura crashed into Kometon Polder; Trent and his navigator survived and were taken prisoner. Between 5:45 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. JG 1 claimed ten aircraft and Unteroffizier Max Winkler from 2./JG 27 claimed a Ventura shot down north of Amsterdam, for three II./JG 1 Fw 190s shot down and two pilots killed.
The 487 Squadron roll was called on 6 May and mustered only six crews and eight aircraft; it was the fourth time that a squadron had been almost annihilated in one operation. Morale in 464 Squadron, another Ventura squadron, was as severely affected as that of 487 Squadron by the losses, especially since the squadron to go on the operation had been decided by the toss of a coin.
Of the twelve 487 Squadron Venturas sent on the mission, the only survivors were the crew of the aircraft from the first box which had turned back with a damaged escape hatch (it broke free when the Ventura landed and jammed in the rudder) and Duffill's aircraft from the second box, which was damaged beyond repair and written off; few aircrew in the nine Venturas shot down on their approach to the target survived. Some hope was offered by fighter pilots on Ramrod 16 who had reported seeing seven parachutes. The 487 Squadron diarist recorded,
It's a very bleak day with the loss of crews like Sqn. Ldr. Trent's, Flg. Off. Perryman's, Andy Coutt's, Tom Baynton's, Foster's, MacGowans, Terry Taylor, Len Richbell, Stanley Coshall, Rupert North and so many others. A better set of boys couldn't be found in thirty years. Everyone is dazed by the news.
A wounded air gunner, Flight Sergeant Urlich, was pushed out of his burning aircraft by his pilot, Flying Officer McGowan and the navigator, Flying Officer Thornber, who were killed soon afterwards, when the bomber exploded.
Suddenly through the intercom I heard 'fighters coming in to meet us from below'. A moment or two later I saw German fighters all round our formations. Five singled us out and began to follow. Three came behind in line astern, the first about 600 yards away. They did not attack immediately but when McGowan began to take evasive action the first one came in. He got in a burst on the port side between my turret and the pilot, but did little damage. The second one was a better shot. He broke a lot of Perspex and wounded me in the right leg. The third one really fixed us. He came in very close, raked us from end to end and hit me in the left foot. I managed to get a burst into him and down he went with his engine on fire. The intercom went dead, and we had a few peaceful moments 'till we were attacked from the front. I didn't see this one come in. He really smashed up the turret. I got nicked in the left side and one of the guns was hit by cannon shell and knocked out of its mounting.
Oberfeldwebel Ernst Heesen from 5./JG 1 and Feldwebel Willi Pfeiffer from 4./JG 1 were killed in action. Heesen had been credited with 32 aerial victories and was the leading fighter pilot in II./JG 1. Feldwebel Georg Hutter was also shot down, and made a forced landing at Haarlem, the aircraft being written off. Heesen may have been shot down by Sergeant R. J. Flight from 118 Squadron.
The attack on the Ijmuiden steel works by 107 Squadron was followed up by Circuses to Abbeville, Cherbourg and Poix. On 15 May, two Boston formations hit the runway and dispersals at Drucat 4 mi (6.4 km) north-east of Abbeville. En route for home, between Poix and Le Touquet, the Bostons were attacked by Bf 109s and Fw 190s. The fighters escorting the Bostons claimed two Bf 109s and Flight Sergeant Kindle, rear gunner of the squadron CO, R. G. England, claimed two fighters damaged. One Boston landed at RAF Detling with a punctured fuel tank and another came down in a field near East Peckham in Kent.
Squadron Leader Alan Wilson took command 487 Squadron which was re-built to a complement of 21 crews; on 23 May the squadron attacked coking ovens at Zeebrugge against scant opposition. On 28 May the King, George VI, came to RAF Methwold to pay his respects and meet fourteen crews from each squadron on the base. A few days later Sir Archibald Sinclair, the Secretary of State for Air, paid a visit to inspect the re-building; 464 Squadron bombed Carpiquet airfield near Caen on the same day. At the end of May, 2 Group left Bomber Command to join the new Second Tactical Air Force and came under Fighter Command control until the formation of the Allied Expeditionary Air Force, five months later. In August 487 Squadron converted to the de Havilland Mosquito; the squadron joined the new 140 Wing and went on to participate in the Amiens prison raid (Operation Jericho).
After his capture, Trent took part in the mass escape by tunnel from Stalag Luft III in Sagan, Lower Silesia in Germany, in March 1944. During the preparations for what became known as the Great Escape. Trent was one of the men responsible for disposal of sand taken from the tunnel; Trent also acted as a security officer to prevent the Germans learning of what was afoot. During the escape, Trent passed through the tunnel and emerged from the hole outside the camp wire when a patrolling sentry discovered the men waiting to crawl away into the woods and alerted the camp guards. After being repatriated and returning to 487 Squadron, Trent reported,
As we approached Amsterdam the anti-aircraft guns joined the fighters in a race to see who would get us first. I was surprised that the fighters continued their attacks and as the powerhouse came into sight my observer had to direct me. 'Bombs Gone' he called, and I looked up from the instruments to see that we were alone. At the same moment we were hit and I found that all controls had gone, but no fire and engines going perfectly. This continued for ten seconds or so, which seemed an age, and then suddenly the aircraft reared up, stalled upside down and went into a spin. Had ordered 'Abandon aircraft' before the zoom and now tried to get out from the roof hatch myself. However, the spin was so rapid that I was not getting anywhere until at about 7,000 feet the machine suddenly broke up and I found myself outside. My navigator was also thrown out but unfortunately the others were trapped in a portion of the wreckage.
For their actions on Ramrod 16, Trent was awarded a Victoria Cross at an investiture at Buckingham Palace on 12 April 1946 and Phillips was decorated with the Distinguished Service Order (DSO). Following the war Trent spent a short amount of time in the New Zealand Air Force before returning to the RAF, where he completed his career in military aviation, reaching the rank of Group Captain.
AJ209 V; Squadron Leader L. H. Trent's aircraft, crashed into Kominten Polder near Fokker Works, 6:00 p.m. two killed, two taken prisoner (PoW)
AE916 C; aircraft returned damaged, landed RAF Feltwell at 6:55 p.m.
AE731 O; emergency landing between Haarlem and Vijfhuizen 5:45 p.m. three crew killed, one PoW
AE684 B; shot down over Bennebroek 5:45 p.m., one killed, three POW
AJ200 G; shot down at Vijfhuizen, no survivors
AE780 S; shot down at Bornstrasse, Amsterdam; three killed, one PoW
AE716 U; crashed in polder west of Amsterdam 6:00 p.m. no survivors
AE713 T; crashed at Hernbrug 5:53 p.m., no survivors
AJ478 A; ditched 12 mi (20 km) off Dutch coast, one killed, three PoW
Thirteen 11 Group fighter squadrons flying a diversion to Vlissingen (Flushing) on the island of Walcheren, 78 mi (126 km) to the south-west of Amsterdam.
No. 453 Squadron RAAF (11 × Spitfire Mk IX)
167 Squadron (8 × Spitfire Mk Vb, 4 × Spitfire Vc)
504 (County of Nottingham) Squadron (3 × Spitfire Mk Vb, 9 × Spitfire MkVc)
302 (Polish) Squadron (7 × Spitfire Mk V)
306 (Polish) Squadron (12 × Spitfire Mk V)
308 (Polish) Squadron (11 × Spitfire Mk V)
613 (City of Manchester) Squadron (8 × Mustang Mk I)
Ashworth, Chris (1995). RAF Bomber Command 1936–1968. Somerset: Haynes. ISBN 1-85260-308-9.
Czynk, J. B. (1998). The Polish Air Force at War: The Official History 1939–1943. Vol. I. Atglen, Pennsylvania: Schiffer Military History. ISBN 0-7643-0559-X. LCCN 97-81029.
Klemann, Hein A. M.; Kudryashov, Sergei (2013). Occupied Economies: An Economic History of Nazi-Occupied Europe, 1939–1945 (e-book ed.). London: Berg. ISBN 978-0-85785-061-4.
Maynard, John (1996). Bennett and the Pathfinders. London: Arms and Armour. ISBN 978-1-85409-258-8.
"On était beau" is a song by French singer Louane. It was released on 30 June 2017 as the lead single from her second studio album Louane. The song has peaked at number nine on the French Singles Chart.
Momentum is a British left-wing political organisation which has been described as a grassroots movement supportive of the Labour Party; since January 2017, all Momentum members must be (or become) members of the party. It was founded in 2015 by Jon Lansman, Adam Klug, Emma Rees and James Schneider after Jeremy Corbyn's successful campaign to become Labour Party leader and it was reported to have between 20,000 and 30,000 members in 2021.
The organisation has polarised Labour politicians and journalists since it was founded. Momentum has been compared to the Labour Party's Militant tendency. The organisation originally set up – and maintains close ties with – The World Transformed.
Since its inception, Momentum has stated its core objective as "to create a mass movement for real progressive change". In their 2021 strategy document "Socialist Organising in a New Era", published on their website, Momentum has three strategic priorities:
Elect socialists and win the radical policies the current moment demands
Support struggles in our communities and workplaces
Scale up political education in our movement and across the country
Momentum has campaigned for the Labour Party to adopt certain pledges in its party manifesto. In 2019 it campaigned for the inclusion of a Green New Deal and a four-day workweek.
Momentum is not a member-controlled unincorporated association — like the Labour Party, for example — but a private company. According to Companies House, the current officers of Momentum Campaign (Services) Ltd are solicitor Anthony Kearns (since 2019) and co-chairs Andrew Scattergood and Gaya Sriskanthan (since 2021). Momentum originally had a delegate system for an executive board, known as the steering committee. In late October 2016, the steering committee voted to adopt one member, one vote (OMOV) for a digital instead of the delegate system; the decision, however, was controversial and did not survive a general vote. A new constitution, including OMOV, was announced on 11 January 2017. New Momentum members were required to be members of the Labour Party, with existing Momentum members required to join the party by July of that year. Lansman initiated changes via email. After persuading the steering committee, he replaced the national committee with a Labour-only national coordinating group (NCG). A new online model of organisation without a regional structure was created to prevent far-left entryists dominating delegate meetings.
After a January 2017 Momentum survey with a response rate of over 40 per cent, the organisation's steering committee voted to introduce a new constitution. Lansman resigned as a director on 12 January 2017 (replaced by Christine Shawcroft) to stand for election to the steering committee. Momentum introduced its new constitutional structure in early March; the new NCG met on 11 March and a conference was held on 25 March, both in Birmingham. In 2020, the newly elected NCG began a process of "refounding Momentum". This was delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic; however, the process of members re-writing the constitution was begun in 2021.
In 2015 – the year it was founded – Momentum had 60,000 supporters (who paid no fees) and 50 local groups. By September 2017, it had 31,000 members in 170 local groups and a staff of 15. In January 2018, the group had 35,000 members. By April of that year, Momentum had 40,000 members. According to the organisation, 95 per cent of its funding comes from membership fees and small donations; the average fee is £3 per year. In July 2018, it was reported that Momentum had 42,000 members: 92 per cent (38,700) in England, four per cent (2,000) in Wales, and three per cent (1,300) in Scotland. Its membership base has been seen as falling into two types: young activists who joined the Labour Party during (and after) Corbyn's first leadership election in 2015, and older, left-wing veterans of the Labour Party and the far left.
In 2021, it was reported by the i paper that Momentum had between 20,000 and 30,000 members and remains the largest campaign group connected to the Labour Party. In late 2022, the Guardian reported that membership was down by one third from the peak, causing financial difficulties, and by early 2024 the Morning Star reported that membership had fallen to just over 10,000.
Momentum maintains close ties with the Centre-Left Grassroots Alliance, a coalition of left-wing groups in the Labour Party who nominate joint candidates for the National Executive Committee and other internal elected positions. In 2016, the Scottish left-wing Campaign for Socialism (CfS) formed a partnership with Momentum; although they remain separate organisations, they share membership and resources. CfS membership increased from 400 in 2015 to 1,418 by 2019.
The left-wing Welsh Labour Grassroots has similar links to Momentum.
A few trade unions which are affiliated to the Labour Party have also affiliated to Momentum, providing some financial support. This includes the Communication Workers Union, Transport Salaried Staffs' Association, Bakers, Food and Allied Workers' Union and the Fire Brigades Union. There has been regular speculation in the media that Unite the Union would affiliate to Momentum also, but the idea has been rejected by the union- they have however collaborated strategically.
In the first election (in 2018), eight Members' Representatives were elected: four for London and the South East; two for the Midlands, the East, the West and Wales; two for the North, Scotland and International; and four public-office holders. Thirty-four per cent of the membership (7,500) voted. Additional elections were held in April of that year for four positions in each of the four regional coordinating offices, and over 13,000 votes (35 per cent of the eligible membership) were cast.
For the second NCG election, in 2020, Momentum's represented geographic regions expanded from four to five. Two slates were nominated for all the positions: Momentum Renewal and Forward Momentum. Both were endorsed by left-wing figures, journalists and politicians, and their ideology had some overlap. Sam Bright of Byline Times wrote, "Both want to reform the democratic structures of the organisation; both want to see more devolution of powers to local groups; both want to defend the radical policies of the Corbyn era". The Momentum Renewal slate emphasised community trade-union organisation. Forward Momentum intended to further democratise Momentum, advocating greater democracy in the Labour Party and the use of open primaries for internal elections. Forward Momentum candidates won in all regions except for public-office holders.
In 2022, the third election took place. Two slates of candidates have emerged from this election "Your Momentum" and "Momentum Organisers". The outcome of the election was that the Momentum Organisers slate won 15 seats, whilst Your Momentum won 14 seats. 3,380 votes were cast.
Momentum was founded in 2015 by Jon Lansman and fellow national organisers Adam Klug, Emma Rees and James Schneider, four weeks after Jeremy Corbyn's successful campaign for the Labour Party leadership. Local groups formed to support Corbyn's leadership, uniting several factions of the left across Britain. Lansman was active in Tony Benn's 1981 deputy leadership bid and, after volunteering for Corbyn's leadership bid, had become the director of Jeremy Corbyn Campaign 2015 (Supporters) Ltd, which held the data collected during the campaign. In addition to their support of Corbyn, Momentum has three primary goals: to win elections for Labour, to create a socialist Labour government, and to help build a broader social movement. Corbyn was positive about Momentum after it was formed, saying in 2016: "I see Momentum as a social movement. A movement that will campaign on all of these issues. But above all, excite and unite people to come together, to come together to challenge injustice, inequality and social exclusion. Bring people together to achieve things together. That is what is makes us [Labour] so different from every other political party in this country."
When it was formed, Momentum wanted to focus on local and Labour Party issues. It was inspired by Syriza in Greece and Podemos in Spain, both of which used pragmatic, grassroots organising to counter the effects of fiscal austerity. The movement has also benefited from ideas by other campaigns operating on a left-wing or progressive platform, such as Bernie Sanders' campaigns to become a presidential candidate for the Democratic party in 2016 and 2020 and Beto O'Rourke's campaign to become a Democratic Senator in Texas.
Momentum has formed ties with other political organisations across North America and Europe. They have collaborated with the Canadian Leap movement, the Young Socialists in the Social Democratic Party of Germany, the Democratic Socialists of America in the United States and similar organisations in Greece. In 2018, Rees and Klug made a ten-week lecture tour of the United States to educate progressive activists and members of the National Nurses United union on political campaigning techniques and to advise Real Justice.
Members of the Parliamentary Labour Party (PLP) had raised concerns that parties on the far left of British politics, including the Trade Unionist and Socialist Coalition, Left Unity, the Socialist Workers Party (SWP), the Socialist Party and the Alliance for Workers' Liberty (AWL), might join Momentum to influence the Labour Party. Momentum was indeed mired by members of these groups and the disruption they caused in its organisation. An example was Jill Mountford, a longtime member of AWL who was accused of bullying with Momentum. The groups considered disbanding and supporting Momentum; in 2015, Left Unity members unsuccessfully proposed a merge with the organisation several times.
The movement has been compared to the Militant tendency, a Trotskyist group which was expelled by Labour under Neil Kinnock during the 1980s. Labour MP Owen Smith accused Momentum of using Militant-tendency tactics such as threatening to deselect Labour MPs, a concern echoed by former deputy Labour leader Roy Hattersley. Oliver Kamm of The Times wrote in October 2015, "Like the Trotskyists of a generation ago Momentum is an entrist organisation that's parasitic on the Labour host. This time, though, the far left has managed to gain control of the party structures and is intent on making life tough for Labour MPs". A Labour councillor in Liverpool in 2019 said about Momentum's presence in the city, "I think Momentum in Liverpool is a mask for Militant. There are decent Momentum people and then there are the others who have their own agenda".
Momentum and a number of political commentators characterise their supposed relationship with other groups as unfair, and in October 2015 the organisation said that it would resist such entryism. Author and journalist Michael Crick criticises the comparison to Militant, saying that "the rise of Jeremy Corbyn can be attributed more to the phenomenon of 'Corbynmania' than to hard-left entrism". Former Labour MP Peter Kilfoyle, the Merseyside Labour-leadership enforcer against Militant during the 1980s as the party's north-west regional organiser, also rejected the comparison and describing Momentum as filling the role on the left of the party as Progress did on the right. In December 2015, Labour deputy leader Tom Watson said on the Today programme: "They look like a bit of a rabble to me, but I don't think they are a problem for the Labour Party". James Schneider said in response to the accusation, "The purpose of Momentum is not to have internal factional battles, it's to look outside".
On 10th January 2017 Momentum's steering committee, in an email to members entitled "Momentum Moving Forwards", announced a new constitution for the organisation. A key feature was that all Momentum members must be, or become, members of the Labour Party. Jill Mountford described this as a "coup" by Lansman. As Labour Party rules state that members must not be a member of any other registered political party (save the Co-operative party), this meant that members of organisations like the SWP could no longer stay in Momentum.
Momentum began a campaign known as Democracy SOS to address the Conservative-Liberal Democratic government's change to an Individual Electoral Registration system; the Electoral Commission had recommended that the program be implemented a year later than it was. The commission believed, based on 2015 records, that eight million people were eligible to vote but were not registered. 1.9 million registered voters were also removed by the change. Momentum utilized their network to campaign in towns and on university campuses to encourage voter registration.
In 2016, former Labour shadow chancellor John McDonnell praised Momentum for their work in the local elections that May. The organisation coordinated activists from Brighton and London to areas such as Hastings, Crawley and Harlow; activists in the North West were directed to West Lancashire.
Prior to the 2016 United Kingdom European Union membership referendum Momentum declared its support for the UK remaining in the European Union (EU).
After the 2017 Stoke-on-Trent Central and Copeland by-elections were called, Momentum mobilised its activist base to campaign for both. They introduced two technological applications: a phone-banking web application called Grassroots Now (used in Corbyn's 2015 and 2016 Labour-leadership election campaigns), and a carpooling web application to help out-of-town activists travel to campaign events. Stoke-on-Trent Labour Party candidate Gareth Snell won, and Labour candidate Gillian Troughton lost to her Conservative opponent in the traditional Labour stronghold of Copeland.
In the run-up to the 8 June 2017 general election, Momentum worked to mobilise voters and encourage volunteers to canvass on behalf of Labour. Their campaign strategy was to target marginal seats (rather than defend safe ones); their MyNearestMarginal.com website enabled voters to search for campaign events in marginal constituencies closest to them, and voters could promise to volunteer on election day at ElectionDayPledge.com. Momentum worked with organisers from Bernie Sanders' 2016 presidential campaign to hold training sessions for volunteers which included persuasive-conversation training. Senior figures from Sanders' campaign included Erika Uyterhoeven (former national director for outer-state organising), Grayson Lookner, Jeremy Parkin and Kim McMurray.
Momentum had an effective social-media presence, and a number of their low-budget videos went viral. One example was "Daddy, do you hate me?", which was watched by 12.7 million Facebook users (more than one in three of the UK's Facebook users). By the end of the election campaign, Momentum videos had a total of 51 million views.
Membership in the organisation increased by 1,500 within four days of the general election, and by another 3,000 within two months of the election. Momentum's Facebook page had 23.7 million views, and its videos were watched by 12.7 million users. The organisation spent less than £2,000 on Facebook advertisements. In May 2017, Noam Chomsky said that the Labour Party's future of the party lay with the left and Momentum: "The constituency of the Labour Party, the new participants, the Momentum group and so on, [...] if there is to be a serious future for the Labour Party that is where it is in my opinion". On polling day, 10,000 Momentum activists knocked on an estimated 1.2 million doors in the UK.
Although Labour lost five seats to the Conservatives in the general election, the party gained 28 seats from the Tories, six from the Scottish National Party and two from the Lib Dems. Almost every constituency targeted by Momentum was won by Labour. Former Conservative Party director of communications Giles Kenningham said in July 2017, "Labour have used Momentum to devastating effect". Later that month, Conservative MP Michael Gove said: "The Conservative Party can learn a lot from Momentum". In August, it was announced that the Communication Workers Union would affiliate with Momentum after its executive committee voted unanimously to join the organisation. John McTernan, a former critic of the Labour left and Corbyn, joined Momentum that summer. Adam Klug resigned as Momentum national co-ordinator that summer after the snap general election, and national co-ordinator and co-founder Emma Rees resigned in October. Laura Parker, who resigned as Jeremy Corbyn's political secretary before the national conference, replaced Rees as national co-ordinator.
The Electoral Commission (EC) announced in March 2019 that Momentum had been fined £16,700 for multiple breaches of electoral law, including failing to accurately report donations during the general-election period. The fine for not submitting an accurate spending return was the largest imposed on a non-party campaign. Although the organisation was initially investigated by the EC for overspending, the commission found that this was not the case. Momentum national treasurer Puru Miah, a councilor in Tower Hamlets, said that "we have put in place comprehensive systems so we can fully adhere to regulations". An April 2020 Momentum report analysed their performance in the 2017 and 2019 general elections, saying that constituencies such as Broxtowe, Hendon, Morley and Outwood, Southampton Itchen, Pudsey, Thurrock and Harrow East could have been won with the enhanced ground support they had by 2019.
Momentum began their Unseat campaign after the 2017 general election with partners like Owen Jones, targeting constituencies where prominent Conservative MPs had a small majority and were susceptible to a Labour win at the next general election. Thousands of people attended Unseat events for seats held by Education Secretary Justine Greening (Putney), Department for Work and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith (Chingford and Woodford Green) and Prime Minister Boris Johnson (Uxbridge and South Ruislip). The campaign motivated Duncan Smith to contact local Conservative associations to organise activists to conduct counter-campaigns.
Because the Labour Party believed that another snap general election was likely, the party conducted its selection procedure to have a slate of parliamentary candidates in place for the 96 marginal constituencies; Momentum backed several of those candidates. By January 2019, over half of Momentum's 67 selections had become candidates. Momentum wanted the Labour manifesto to propose a four-day work week and a Green New Deal: mass state investment to address climate change.
Momentum established a candidate network providing support for new councillors and encouraging women to stand, giving them opportunities to discuss policy and training in successful Labour-controlled councils such as Salford and Preston. Momentum-backed selections in the 2018 local elections included Rokhsana Fiaz for Mayor of Newham, who was elected with an increased majority. The Trafford Labour Party leader cited Momentum as a key reason for Labour's gain of seats in the borough. Momentum-supported councillor Joseph Ejiofor became leader of Haringey London Borough Council after the elections in London.
In February 2019, after the resignation of nine Labour members of parliament (eight becoming members of the centrist Independent Group with former Conservatives), Momentum began to organise resources and activists to campaign for those seats, wanting public pressure from constituents to trigger by-elections. The organisation raised £15,000 in the hours after the split to fund the campaign. Momentum organized 100 activists on 19 March in Streatham (Chuka Umunna's constituency), with Owen Jones, Diane Abbott and Ash Sarkar speaking to activists at a rally.
In March 2019, Momentum began Bankrupt Climate Change: a protest campaign outside Barclays banks by 40 local groups. The campaign's objective was to raise awareness of Barclays' investments in fossil-fuel companies; the bank is reportedly Europe's largest financier (and the world's sixth-largest) of such companies.
During the 2019 local elections, Jamie Driscoll was selected as Labour candidate for the inaugural first North of Tyne mayoral election as a notable Momentum-backed choice. Driscoll won the election, with 56.1 per cent of the second-round vote. Brighton and Hove City Council, where Momentum backed 12 Labour candidates, and Sandwell Council were focal points for the organisation.
Following the announcement of the 12 December 2019 snap general election, Momentum called for a large mobilisation of Momentum and Labour members. The group increased their number of paid staff from 13 to 56 for the election campaign period. The group set a funding target of £50,000 in 48 hours, however exceeded this and raised £100,000 in 12 hours. Within six days of this funding drive Momentum have raised £255,000 from 10,000 individual donations, averaging at £26 per donation which came close to beating the amount raised during the entirety of the 2017 General election campaign. Within 10 days, the group reached over £300,000 from 11,000 donations. Parker commented on these funds saying the organisation will be able to "scale up every aspect of our operation from the get-go, which will allow us to deliver a campaign like nothing this country has ever seen before.”
Momentum created different tools and initiatives to help activists to organise. Prior to the campaign in September Momentum created a website "Univotes" to help students strategically plan which constituency is better for them to vote in; as students can register at both their home address and student address. The student vote been cited by Momentum as why Labour won in Canterbury, Warwick and Leamington, Portsmouth South, Newcastle-under-Lyme and Lincoln in 2017. They created a website "mycampaignmap.com"- as a successor to the 'My Nearest Marginal' website used for the 2017 election- which helps activists to coordinate their efforts in areas they are most needed. My Campaign Map was used to organise over 21,000 events for the election period, and had over 170,000 unique visitors.
Momentum created a new type of volunteers called "Labour Legends", who took time off from work and commit at least a full week of campaigning in their area, or to volunteer in other constituencies. In 10 days this initiative acquired over 1,000 people have signed up, providing 40,000 volunteer hours, and eventually rising to over 1,400 people getting involved, 500 of which were allocated to marginal seats. Momentum additionally encourages Labour party members abroad in Europe, The United States and Australia to register British expats to vote and to participate in phone banking from where they live. Momentum also created an online forum for the election, the Volunteer Slack, in which volunteers were able to assist with researching issues around the election, phonebanking, texting voters, or helping with video clips. The forum continued after the election and now exists as the "Momentum Community", with over 5,000 members as of August 2021.
The group developed their campaign strategy with three principles in mind, according to Emma Rees: people power, the targeting of marginal seats, and the idea of getting everybody to step up. This was done by following a decentralised model in which activists have both a clear understanding of the aims and taking on organisational roles. Momentum has created several opportunities for activists to get involved in other ways of promotion- these include “Let’s Go” teams who communicate on do phone banking using WhatsApp, volunteers who watch through interviews of Conservative and Liberal Democrat politicians to be used for videos and also people creating videos of themselves explaining why they are voting labour and posting them on social media to help engage with voters on all available platforms.
Momentum used social media advertising to encourage people to register to vote for the election. One of their adverts targeted Urdu speakers. The organising group controversially made a video for Twitter based on a Coca-Cola Christmas advert that circulates every year. They were asked to cease and desist by the Coca-Cola company and the advertisement was taken down. By the end of the election, their videos had a combined viewing of 106 million, double that of the last election.
In 2020, Momentum submitted a report to the Labour party's "Labour Together Review", which was a cross-factional analysis of the party's performance and strategy, making several recommendations on the tools and approach for future elections.
Following their defeat in the 2019 general election, in which Labour lost 60 seats, Jeremy Corbyn and Momentum national coordinator Laura Parker resigned. The election loss led Corbyn to call a leadership election, coupled with the deputy leadership election, with the results of both elections announced in April 2020. On 14 January 2020, Momentum ran a two-day online consultation with their members about endorsing Rebecca Long-Bailey for leader and Angela Rayner for deputy leader. The consultation's closed format was controversial. Of the 7,395 members participating, 70 per cent supported Long-Bailey and 52 per cent supported Rayner. Momentum planned hundreds of phone-banking events to support Long-Bailey. Keir Starmer won the election in the first round (with Long-Bailey receiving 28 per cent of the vote), and Momentum failed to win any of the National Executive Committee by-elections. Momentum congratulated Starmer on his victory, and positioned themselves to work with the new leadership for "transformational policies". In May 2020, Momentum founder Jon Lansman announced that he would step down as chairman the following month.
Momentum focused more on grassroots campaigning, since Starmer's election. In the face of a recession due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Momentum organised with ACORN and the London Renters' Union to organise renters to fight eviction and educate them about their tenancy rights. During the lockdown, it was believed that 220,000 private renters fell into arrears and an estimated 60,000 eviction notices were served. Momentum began encouraging their London members and supporters to join the London Renters' Union in May 2020, and the campaign was in full swing by September. To facilitate coordination, Momentum revamped their mycampaignmap website to display local groups, training and events.
In the run-up to the 2021 local elections, the London Labour Party changed its selection process for assembly members so party members select new candidates; four assembly members were not standing for re-election. This was believed to be an opportunity for Momentum, who gained influence in the regional party in the 2018 regional-conference elections to nominate candidates who would push Sadiq Khan's election manifesto to the left. In the member selections, only one Momentum-backed constituency candidate was chosen and the top four London-wide candidates were all from Momentum's slate. Subsequently, only Elly Baker and Sakina Sheikh were elected at the election in May 2021.
In March 2021, the organisation published their 2021–2024 strategy: "Socialist Organising in a New Era". Due to the expulsions of left-wing Labour Party members, Momentum provided legal support to those deemed unjust.
In the run up to the 2024 general election, Momentum was unsuccessful in getting candidates affiliated with their faction selected as prospective Labour parliamentary candidates. Candidates affiliated with Momentum alleged they were being blocked from progressing. Although the group would endorse several sitting Labour MPs to the left of the party in the 2024 election, only one new candidate endorsed by Momentum, Connor Naismith, became a Labour MP.
The organisation voted to continue to focus on organising with the Labour Party in March 2024, preventing members from other parties joining. Despite this, the group has continued to decline, with co-chair Hilary Schan quitting the Labour Party and Momentum in May 2024. Mish Rahman, former Momentum member of Labour's National Executive Committee, left the party to join the Green Party in April 2025. The decision of former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn is create a new socialist political party, Your Party, and the rise in support for Zack Polanski's "eco-socialist" vision for the Green Party have both led to left wing organisers within Labour to leave.
Critics of Corbyn in the Parliamentary Labour Party have raised concerns that Momentum might encourage the deselection of MPs and councillors who disagree with the organisation, in a process known as reselection. The concern was amplified by prominent left-wing voices unaffiliated with Momentum. Momentum denied the accusation in 2015, saying: "We will not campaign for the deselection of any MP and will not permit any local Momentum groups to do so. The selection of candidates is entirely a matter for local party members and rightly so". The organization is supportive of open selections, however, in which all members (not just socialist societies and trade unions) have an equal influence on the selection process and are democratically accountable.
In July 2018, Momentum national coordinator Laura Parker said that four Labour MPs who voted against an opposition amendment to the EU withdrawal bill should be deselected. At the Labour Party Conference that year, the organisation's reselection reforms were supported by Corbyn. In July 2019, Momentum announced they would support Labour and Momentum members who wanted to challenge sitting Labour MPs to encourage a younger, more working class and ethnically diverse pool of party representatives. Research indicates that candidates selected during this period were more likely to be aligned to the party's 'progressive' faction.
In 2017, the Labour Party began a democracy review which would give its membership greater voting capabilities. Momentum has advocated greater membership involvement in party decision-making and "bolder reforms", such as Labour members having a larger role in policy development. Momentum has pushed for lowering of the nomination threshold for Labour leadership candidates, so a left-wing successor to Corbyn could more easily contest a future election. Jon Lansman, however, called the proposed Labour reforms "tinkering around the edges".
Momentum tabled plans to update the selection of BAME Labour representatives, in which a one member, one vote election would replace a small-group decision. Under the Momentum plan, all Black or other-minority party members would automatically become part of BAME Labour and have a one-member, one-vote right to elect their NEC representative. BAME Labour would be an independent organisation, with its committee having direct access to its membership list and centrally-funded finances and the ability to independently organise its own campaigns and events.
Crucial votes about the democracy review took place during the 2017 Labour Party Conference in Brighton. Momentum launched M.app, a smartphone app to alert delegates to key votes on the conference floor and send real-time information about events and rallies. Although a compromise motion lowering the threshold for local party and union branches to express dissatisfaction with an MP's performance from 50 to 33 per cent passed, it was announced that the democracy review was being shelved.
In the 2016 elections for the National Executive Committee, it emerged that Momentum, the Campaign for Labour Party Democracy and other leftist groups had formed a joint slate under the Centre-Left Grassroots Alliance (CLGA), and were backing six representatives for the NEC: Rhea Wolfson, former chair of the Oxford University Jewish Society who replaced Ken Livingstone; Christine Shawcroft, a senior Momentum figure who had been an NEC member for fifteen years and was briefly suspended from the party after defending Lutfur Rahman (gaining media attention for jocular comments about dialogue with ISIS instead of air strikes); Peter Willsman; Claudia Webbe; Ann Black, and Darren Williams. All six candidates were elected.
In 2017, Momentum and the Campaign for Socialism (their Scottish sister organisation) won five of the eight seats on the Scottish Labour executive committee. At that year's Labour conference, it was announced that the party would add three more member-elected positions on the NEC in response to a significant rise in membership. During the balloting period, Peter Willsman was removed from Momentum's list of recommended candidates after an allegation of antisemitism; Willsman had been recorded as describing some Jewish critics of Labour as "Trump fanatics". Three other Momentum-backed candidates were elected to the NEC: Jon Lansman, Yasmine Dar and Rachel Garnham.
In April 2020, three NEC elections were held alongside the 2020 Labour leadership election: two for casual vacancies, and one for a newly created BAME position. None of Momentum's nominated candidates were successful.
Labour's voting system for the elections of CLP reps to the NEC was changed from first-past-the-post to STV in 2020, a move supporters said they hoped would reduce factionalism. As a resullt, the alliance agreed on a Grassroots Voice slate in July 2020 of six candidates for nine Constituency Labour Party seats in the October election. Four hundred and fifty CLPs participated, the highest turnout in Labour history; forty-two per cent of the selection nominations went to the Grassroots Voice slate. Five out of six candidates were elected from the slate. As well as Momentum winning a majority of seats on Young Labour's National Executive.
In 2021, all four of Momentum's backed candidates for the newly created National Women's Committee were elected (Solma Ahmed, Ekua Bayunu, Tricia Duncan and Chloe Hopkins)- with the further two positions being other left-wing candidates from the CLGA; Momentum lost control of the London REC in a hastily organised conference; and three out of four of Momentum's backed candidates in Young Labour's new equalities roles were won In 2022, Momentum and Campaign for Socialism endorsed Coll McCail and Lauren Harper as youth reps on the Scottish Executive Committee.
In the 2024 NEC elections, three CLGA candidates were elected for the nine available seats, a loss of one seat. Labour to Win, the coalition of Labour's right, won four and noted that this was the first time in two decades that the organised right wing slate had won more of the CLP representative seats than the left faction.
One of Momentum's primary objectives was to create an anti-austerity movement in the UK which was connected to the Labour Party. In particular, Momentum criticised George Osborne's proposal to cut tax credit payments for working families. In 2016, local Momentum groups began to collect and volunteer for food banks.
Since 2015, there have been a series of allegations of antisemitism against Labour Party members. Many past and current leading figures in Momentum were or are Jewish (or of Jewish ancestry), such as Klug, Lansman, Schneider, Rhea Wolfson and Jackie Walker. Momentum accepts the existence of antisemitism in the party and acknowledges that action must be taken to combat this, although some members of the group have been accused of antisemitism themselves. Lansman attributed the antisemitism to "conspiracy theorists" in the party and the organisation, and Momentum has challenged the conspiracy theories with viral videos.
Walker, Momentum's vice-chair, was expelled from the Labour Party for behaviour related to antisemitism. Joshua Garfield, a Jewish youth officer in a London Momentum branch, resigned in April 2018 because antisemitism by branch members made him feel "sometimes unsafe and certainly untrusted". Garfield was a member (and, later, an officer) of the Jewish Labour Movement who appeared on a Panorama episode about antisemitism in the Labour Party. In the 2018 National Executive Committee elections, Momentum withdrew their support for Peter Willsman after an NEC meeting in which he described those "lecturing" the party about antisemitism as "Trump fanatics" who were "making up duff information without any evidence at all".
In early 2020, two Momentum-backed Labour councillors in Brighton were suspended pending an investigation after accusations of antisemitism; the Green Party then led the minority administration.
In response to Jeremy Corbyn's suspension from the Labour Party after the antisemitism report, Momentum and other left-wing groups passed motions of solidarity with him; some of the motions indicated a vote of no confidence in leader Starmer and general secretary David Evans. This led to 50 suspensions, including seven from the Momentum-affiliated Welsh Labour Grassroots.
Momentum supported remain in the 2016 UK EU referendum.
Following the 2016 UK EU referendum, Momentum declined to take a formal position in the Brexit debate and supported the Labour Party position. Several Momentum members have supported a second referendum, however, with remaining and the government's deal as options. The People's Vote advocacy group, which included trade-union leaders and former Momentum members, was launched in April 2018. The group's launch statement was signed by TSSA union general secretary Manuel Cortes, economist Ann Pettifor, former Momentum steering group member Michael Chessum and former CWU general secretary Billy Hayes. A November 2018 poll of Momentum members found that a majority supported a second referendum. The left-wing, pro-European pressure group Another Europe Is Possible contains Momentum members such as former steering-committee member Michael Chessum. In March 2019, 188 Momentum activists sent an open letter to Jon Lansman supporting a second referendum.
In 2021 and 2022 Momentum organised politically against the Covert Human Intelligence Act and the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Bill (PCSC) by building connections between socialist MPs and social movements and supporting demonstrations and lobbying. In March 2021, then Momentum co-chairs Andrew and Gaya signed a Greenpeace open letter alongside other social movements opposing the PCSC Bill.
Momentum has been supportive of refugees attempting to claim asylum in the United Kingdom. In August 2020, the organisation criticised Labour leader Keir Starmer's lack of support for those crossing the English Channel to claim asylum in the UK. Their condemnation was coordinated with Open Labour and the Labour Campaign for Free Movement.
Momentum called for its membership to lobby Labour MPs "to support Corbyn, not Cameron, over Syria" on Twitter, linking to the Stop the War Coalition's Don't Bomb Syria campaign which opposed the Conservative government's proposal to extend its bombing sorties against Daesh (also known as ISIS) from Daesh-held territory in Iraq to Daesh-held territory in Syria. Corbyn had argued that Cameron's government lacked a credible plan for defeating Daesh, and the bombing in Syria would not increase the United Kingdom's national security; he has also said that military action should always be a last resort. Some Labour MPs criticised Momentum's move to lobby on party-political grounds before the Labour Party's position on military action had been decided; Gavin Shuker asked, "Who decided this was your position on Syria, and to lobby MPs in this way?"
In February 2022, Russia initiated a full-scale invasion of Ukraine and a week prior to the invasion 11 current Labour MPs belonging to the party's left and two independent MPs signed an open letter from the Stop the War Coalition condemning NATO and the UK government for increasing tensions prior to the event. The Labour leadership under Keir Starmer threatened the MPs with expulsion and they rescinded their support. Momentum then condemned the party leadership for using the war, in their opinion, as a tool for punishing the left.
In 2016, Momentum began The World Transformed (TWT): an annual four-day festival at the same time as the Labour Party conference which features art, music, culture and political discussions. Although Momentum originally organised the festival, it became an independent entity with close ties to the group. In 2020, the festival became online-only and spread across a month in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and returned to a physical festival in 2021, with additional online access.
The festival has featured several international politicians present in different talks, such as: 2017 French presidential candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon, leader of the German Die Linke party Katja Kipping and leader of the Tanzanian Alliance for Change and Transparency party Zitto Kabwe (in 2018), US Democratic Congresswomen Ilhan Omar (in 2020), and US Independent Senator Bernie Sanders (in 2021)
After the 2018 World Transformed event, local one- and multi-day festivals not organised by Momentum or TWT began to emerge.
List of organisations associated with the Labour Party (UK)
Militant tendency, a socialist organisation that was associated with the Labour Party, disbanded in 1991
Socialist Campaign Group, MP grouping containing most Momentum supporting MPs
La Javie (French pronunciation: [la ʒavi]; Occitan: La Jàvia) is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.
The village lies on the right bank of the Bléone, which flows west through the southeastern part of the commune.
Communes of the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department
The Yancheng Coastal Wetlands is the largest coastal wetlands nature reserve in China. It is situated close to Yancheng, Jiangsu province, China.
The reserve is located in the east part of Yancheng, Jiangsu Province and in the coastal area of SheYang, DaFeng, XiangShui, BinHai and DongTai counties. The coast is 582 kilometers long and the area covers 453,000 hectares. The reserve faces the south of Yellow Sea and backs by the north flatland of JiangSu Province.
It is named after the Dongbei and Liao Rivers is connected to the Songnen Plain through the Yellow River Valley; a small plain lies north of Dongting Lake in the west.
It has more than 600 kinds of natural vegetation, 379 kinds of birds, 281 kinds of shellfish, 590 kinds of insects, 47 kinds of mammal and another 490 kinds of plants. In 1992, The Nation Rare Birds Nature Reserve was built in Yancheng Wetlands. The Yancheng Nature Reserve is especially known for the red-crowned cranes. Every winter, hundreds of red-crowned crane migrate to wintering sites in the Yancheng Nature Reserve. There are about 3,000,000 birds fly through Yancheng. Among these birds, more than 500,000 birds overwinter in Yancheng Nature Reserve.
Geography of China
"Yancheng Coastal Wetlands". Archived from the original on 2002-08-28.
http://www.wwt.org.uk/text/516/yangcheng_dafeng_national_nature_reserves.html Archived 2008-11-20 at the Wayback Machine
http://www.chinaculture.org/gb/en_aboutchina/2003-09/24/content_21419.htm
Wetland Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Use in China Project - Yancheng Coastal Wetlands
Ray (Japanese: レイ, Hepburn: Rei) is a character in the manga series The Promised Neverland, created by Kaiu Shirai and Posuka Demizu. Ray is an 11-year-old boy living at Grace Field House. Like Emma and Norman, Ray consistently gets perfect scores on his daily exams. He is known for being an avid reader with high intellectual abilities, blunt skepticism and cunning.
In the anime adaptation, he is voiced by Mariya Ise in Japanese and by Laura Stahl in the English version. In the live-action film adaptation, he is portrayed by Kairi Jo and Ruito Yamashiro.
Ray has ranked highly in various awards and polls. In 2020, he was awarded the Joint Character Wildcard at the 6th Anime Trending Awards. He was also praised for his character development and for his important role in the series.
According to Kaiu Shirai, Ray, unlike his siblings, has an opposite and darker personality. He is more extreme than the rest of his family. He is the darkness, compare to Emma the sun, and Norman the moon. Ray is the favorite character of Kaiu Shirai, according to the author, they have things in common, explaining how the way he tends to get desperate and throw in the towel is a lot like the personality of Ray. Shirai revealed that in his original script, Ray was originally going to die. Seeing as how he nearly burned himself down with Grace Field House in retaliation against Isabella and the demons, he could have died before his siblings even escaped. But he avoided this idea. Posuka Demizu considers Ray to be an easier and fast character to create compared to Norman and Emma. Even if he is the most deep and dark character of the main characters of the series. According to Demizu, The proposal where his eye was hidden was a casual sketch. She thought that it might give him more flow, a sort of shadow air and make him look cool.
In the anime adaptation, Ray is voiced by Mariya Ise in Japanese; and Laura Stahl voices the character in English. In the live-action film adaptation, Ray was portrayed by Kairi Jo in the original role, and by Ruito Yamashiro in his childhood.
Ray was born on January 15, 2034. At the beginning of the story on October 12, 2045, Ray is an 11-year-old boy living at Grace Field House orphanage. He has dark green eyes and messy short black hair with long bangs that are parted to the right and cover up much of the left side of his face. He wears the standard orphanage uniform- a white shirt and trousers along with plain shoes. An authentication number, 81194 is tattooed on his neck. As Ray grew up, he realized that there were inconsistencies between his own memories and the reality that spread before him in the orphanage, and eventually that helped him to discover the true purpose of Grace Field House.
Being the only biological son of their caretaker, Isabella, he did not experience childhood amnesia, confirming his suspicions about the existence of demons and true nature of the house later when he was 6 years old, the day when he has a beautiful voice when he first hummed Lesile's song. Ray becomes Isabella's spy in exchange for goods and the promise that he, Norman, and Emma will not get fed to demons until their 12th birthdays. He pledged to use the remaining years of his life to orchestrate an escape plan that would lead to his two siblings finding out the truth themselves. After a confrontation with Norman, he becomes the children's trump card just as Isabella betrays him. Although initially unwilling to accept Emma's unrealistic goal of escaping with every child, he vows to never give up on them after their escape succeeds. In 2047, Ray stopped wearing the standard uniform when he arrived at the shelter where he found new clothes. He began wearing long, black pants, a black shirt, and a long white-colored coat together with the old brown shoes he wore at the Grace Field House.
Ray appears in three of four light novel books of the series written by Nanao, illustrated by Posuka Demizu and supervised by Kaiu Shirai; as well as appearing in the comedic spin-off manga, Oyakusoku no Neverland (お約束のネバーランド), written and illustrated by Shuhei Miyazaki.
Ray appeared in two drama CDs released along with the anime series' first season Blu-ray disc, titled GF House Ghost Disturbance and Gift from the 39th Girl. The stories were originated from the novel A Letter from Norman. Ray also appeared in two other drama CDs titled The day Emma cried and Voice Time Capsule, released along with the anime series' second season Blu-ray disc. Ray is a playable character in the mobile game The Promised Neverland: Escape the Hunting Grounds released on iOS and Android. Ray is also a playable character in the crossover collaborations between The Promised Neverland and the smartphone video games Identity V, Jumputi Heroes, Dragon Egg, Vivid Army and LINE POP 2.
Ray was awarded the Joint Character Wildcard and was nominated for the Man of the Year category at the 6th Anime Trending Awards in 2020. Ray achieved the third place behind Norman and Emma in the Color Illustration Character Poll of the series in 2018. In the Weekly Shōnen Jump's popularity poll of the series in 2018, Ray ranked in third place. He also took third in the second popularity poll of the series, with a total of 4,651 votes.
The scholar of British and American literature Kei Toda described the writing and character development of Ray as excellent, unique and well thought; she also praised his gender identity as a boy who can cook and wash his clothes, which is often the job of women, it is Ray-a boy, who has learned to cook delicious food for his brothers and sisters. Allen Moody of THEM Anime Reviews described Ray as "As for Ray, he is also taken some psychological damage from the place, and I was wondering how trustworthy he was- as apparently his pals Norman and Emma had been wondering too- but I liked Ray nevertheless (or maybe just felt sympathy for him); his soul was clearly damaged by the place, but maybe not damaged beyond redemption".
Brittany Vincent from Syfy praised the character by saying "Ray is an isolated child who typically shuns friends, but he is got a sharp intellect and a keen eye for his surroundings, a necessary skill in this bizarre world the group of orphaned children finds themselves living in". Pauline Croquet from the French newspaper Le Monde said that the design of the three main characters, including Ray, is very original and comes out of the shōnen manga typical designs; and stated "The children of Grace Field House, the oldest of whom are 11 years old, have lived since birth in an idyllic setting and are treated with love by the director, whom they call "Mom". The intelligent and resourceful Emma, Norman and Ray, will understand that they are all in danger of death. They decide to run away with their siblings, but they are completely unaware of what awaits them outside".
Noitamina Shop & Cafe Theater held a cafe event and sold multiple merchandise of Ray, to commemorate his birthday in 2019. Other merchandise related to the character such as figurines, plush dolls, perfumes, mugs, and T-shirts have been created. A collaboration with Megane Flower glasses was held in March 2021, which included limited edition glasses frames designed after Ray, Norman, and Emma. Ray was also featured on a MasterCard credit card in 2022.
List of The Promised Neverland characters
Ray at The Promised Neverland manga official website (in Japanese)
Ray at The Promised Neverland anime official website (in Japanese)
The Lake-Porter County Conference was an IHSAA-sanctioned conference in Northwest Indiana. The conference formed by 1929 at latest, consisting of smaller schools in Lake and Porter counties (before suburban growth made many of these schools some of the largest in the state). The much smaller rural Porter County schools split off in 1933, though Portage and Wheeler would compete in both the LPCC and Porter County Conference. The conference ended in 1949, as almost every school would form the Calumet Athletic Conference.
Played concurrently in the LPCC and PCC 1933–49.
The following television stations operate on virtual channel 60 in the United States:
KFXV in Harlingen, Texas
KPJK in San Mateo, California
KVDA in San Antonio, Texas
W33ET-D in New York, New York
WBPH-TV in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
WKHU-CD in Kittanning, Pennsylvania
WNEU in Merrimack, New Hampshire
WTJP-TV in Gadsden, Alabama
WWPX-TV in Martinsburg, West Virginia
WXFT-DT in Aurora, Illinois
L'Orfeide is an opera composed by Gian Francesco Malipiero who also wrote the Italian libretto, partly based on the myth of Orpheus and incorporating texts by Italian Renaissance poets. The work consists of three parts – La morte delle maschere (The death of the masks), Sette canzoni (Seven songs), and Orfeo, ovvero L'ottava canzone (Orpheus, or The eighth song). It received its first complete performance on 5 November 1925 at the Stadttheater in Düsseldorf.
Although it is often referred to as a trilogy (or an operatic triptych), Malipiero himself described the work as one opera in three parts, with parts I and II also able to be performed independently. L'Orfeide was composed between 1918 and 1922. The first part to be composed, and what would eventually become Part II of the complete work, was Sette Canzoni, composed by Malipiero between 1918 and 1919. However, according to Waterhouse (1999), Malpiero's correspondence indicates that he had originally conceived Sette Canzoni as a stand-alone work, rather than as the central panel of a triptych. Sette Canzoni premiered at the Palais Garnier in Paris on 10 July 1920 in French translation by Henry Prunières as Sept chansons, conducted by Gabriel Grovlez. The strangeness of its music and dramatic structure and its deliberate break with the verismo style popular at the time caused an uproar at the premiere which nearly drowned out the performance.
In 1919, Malipiero started composing Orfeo, ovvero L'ottava canzone, which was to become Part III, and finished it shortly before the premiere of Sette canzoni. Part I, La morte delle maschere was the last to be composed and was completed in 1922. The world premiere of L'Orfeide in its entirety took place on 5 November 1925 at the Stadttheater in Düsseldorf. The performance, conducted by Erik Orthmann, used a German translation of Malipiero's libretto by Erik Orthmann and Willi Aron. Later complete performances of the work included its Italian premiere at La Fenice in Venice (1936) and the Teatro della Pergola in Florence (1966).
Performances of the complete trilogy are rare. However, there have been a considerable number of performances of Part II, Sette canzoni, considered one of Malipiero's masterpieces. It premiered in the United States in 1925 in a concert performance organized by the League of Composers at the Forty-Eighth Street Theatre in New York City. In Italy it was first performed in Turin in 1926 (in a double bill with Ravel's L'heure espagnole); in Rome in 1929 (in a double bill with Puccini's Gianni Schicchi); and in Florence in 1948 (in a triple bill with Donizetti's Il campanello and a ballet based on Cocteau's Les Maries de la Tour Eiffel). It received its British staged premiere at the King's Theatre in Edinburgh in 1969 (in a double bill with Dallapiccola's Il prigioniero) for the 23rd Edinburgh Festival. An unusual version of the work performed entirely by marionettes with recorded voices was premiered by the Gran Teatrino "La Fede delle Femmine" at La Fenice as part of the 1993 Venice Biennale.
Apart from the impresario and Orfeo, the roles are those of the standard commedia dell'arte characters, all of whom traditionally performed in masks. The Italian word "maschera" (mask) is also used to denote a commedia dell'arte player.
Impresario (narrator, spoken role)
Arlecchino (tenor),
Brighella (baritone),
Dottor Balanzon (baritone)
Capitan Spaventa di Valle Inferna (bass)
Pantalone (baritone)
Tartaglia (tenor)
Pulcinella (tenor)
An impresario presents a performance of his commedia dell'arte troupe. The performance is interrupted when a man dressed in red, wearing a frightening mask and brandishing a whip, bursts in and scatters the players. The impresario flees as the masked stranger locks all seven players in a large cupboard. To the sounds of protest emanating from the cupboard, the masked man declares the death of the masks and their irrelevance to real life. He removes his own mask and costume and reveals himself to be Orpheus, exchanging the whip for his traditional lyre. Orpheus then introduces seven new characters who will be better representatives of the human condition (and who will become the main characters of Part II, Sette canzoni). They file silently onto and off the stage as the commedia dell'arte players protest from the cupboard that they will starve to death. Arlecchino manages to escape from the cupboard exclaiming, "It will never be true that Arlecchino will die of hunger" ("Non sarà mai vero che Arlecchino muoia di fame"). The curtain falls as Arlecchino scampers off-stage.
The seven songs in this part (which lasts 40 minutes in all) are designed as individual mini-operas. They are themed musically, but do not form a connected narrative. Malipiero claimed that each was inspired by an incident that he had observed.
1. Il vagabondo (The vagabond) – A story-teller convinces a young girl to abandon her blind companion. This was suggested to Malipiero by a group of vagabonds he once encountered in Venice, a crippled man who played the violin, a blind man who played the guitar, and a young woman who served as a guide for the blind man. They always played badly and always in the darkest, most out of the way streets. One day, he encountered the blind man alone, desperately playing his guitar. His companion had run off with the crippled violinist.
Roles: Il cantastorie (the story-teller), (baritone); Una giovane donna (a young woman), (soprano); Il cieco (the blind man), (tenor); passers-by (mimed)
2. A vespro (At Vespers) – A chorus of friars is heard intoning the Vespers. Another friar, impatient to lock up the church for the night, interrupts a woman in prayer by rattling his keys and ultimately tapping her on the shoulder and pointing to the door. Malipiero witnessed a similar incident at the Chiesa di Sant'Agostino in Rome.
Roles: Il frate (the friar), (mimed); old woman (mimed)
3. Il ritorno (The return) – An old woman is driven mad by worry for her son who is away at war. So much so that when he returns, she fails to recognize him. Malpiero recalls passing by a house at the foot of Monte Grappa outside Venice, where he used to hear an old woman weeping, screaming, singing lullabies, and cradling a doll. Her son had been killed in World War I and she had become mad with grief.
Roles: La vecchia madre (the old mother), (soprano); young passers-by (chorus); her son (mimed)
4. L'ubriaco (The drunkard) – A man runs away from his lover's house chased by her elderly husband. In his flight he knocks over a drunkard who had been singing on the steps of the house. The husband mistakes the drunkard for his wife's lover and savagely beats him with his cane. This episode was inspired by Malipiero's observations of drunkards in Venice interrupting romantic encounters.
Roles: L'ubriaco (the drunkard), (bass or baritone); a young man in love (mimed); a young woman (mimed); old man (mimed)
5. La serenata (The serenade) – A man serenades his beloved outside her house. Unbeknownst to him, she is weeping by the body of a dead relative and is not listening to his song. This episode was inspired by Malipiero's observations of the contrast between Venetian serenades and laments for the dead.
Roles: L'innamorato (the man in love), (tenor); young woman (mimed)
6. Il campanaro (The bellringer) – As a man rings the church bells to warn the townspeople of a terrible fire, he sings a ribald song, seemingly indifferent to the impending disaster. This episode was inspired by a funeral which Malipiero had attended in Ferrara. He heard the bellringer whistling "La donna è mobile" as he rang the funeral toll.
Roles: Il campanaro (the bell-ringer) (baritone)
7. L'alba delle ceneri (The dawn of Ash Wednesday) – In a small town, a lamplighter extinguishes the street lamps as a funeral carriage passes by accompanied by penitents calling people to prayer. A troupe of masked clowns are dancing in the street and momentarily block the carriage. A mysterious figure symbolizing death appears and they scatter. One of clowns loses his cap in the melee. Once the procession has passed, he cautiously returns to retrieve it and in the process meets a young masked woman returning from the carnival. The two go off together. Malipiero wrote that this scene reflects the relief he always felt when Ash Wednesday liberated him from the "invasive banality" of the carnival season. One of the traditions of the carnival in several countries, including Italy, is a symbolic funeral on the eve of Ash Wednesday to mark the "death" of the carnival.
Roles: Il lampionaio (the lamplighter), (tenor or baritone); penitents (chorus); religious old women (mimed); clowns (mimed); young masked woman (mimed)
Il re, the king (baritone)
La regina, the queen (soprano)
Il cavaliere, a knight (tenor)
Il bibitaro, a drinks seller (tenor)
Agrippina (soprano)
Nerone (baritone)
Dama, a lady of the court (spoken role)
Il carnefice, the executioner (spoken role)
Mimed roles and chorus: servants, courtiers, spectators, boys, reactionary old men and their ladies.
Courtiers gather in a 14th-century theatre. A knight unsuccessfully tries to gain the attention of one of the ladies of the court. A drinks seller noisily hawks his wares. When the king and queen arrive, the performance begins. It is a bloodthirsty tale of ancient Rome sung by marionettes and involving Emperor Nero, his mother Agrippina, and an executioner. The king and queen and their aristocratic companions watch the drama impassively. Two other audiences are shown in separate areas of the stage, each in their own theatre – reactionary old men and their female companions in a luxurious baroque theatre who are indignant and outraged by the spectacle and a group of rowdy boys sitting on plain benches who thoroughly applaud the violence and demand more. At the end of the performance, Orpheus appears dressed as a clown. He congratulates the aristocrats on their passivity and then begins to sing, "Uscite o gemiti, accenti queruli, lamenti flebili..." ("Begone o groans, querelous words, languid laments..."). His song puts everyone to sleep except the queen who is fascinated by him. She and Orpheus escape together as the candles go out and the curtain comes down.
The only commercially released recording of the complete Orfeide (a remastered live recording of the 7 June 1966 performance at the Teatro della Pergola in Florence) was published in 1996 by the French company Tahra (Tah 190/191). Hermann Scherchen conducted the Maggio Musicale Fiorentino Orchestra with a cast that included Magda Olivero and Renato Capecchi. Scherchen fell during the performance, but still managed to conduct until the end. He was hospitalized after the performance, and died shortly after, the 12 June.
Casaglia, Gherardo (2005). "L'Orfeide, 5 November 1925". L'Almanacco di Gherardo Casaglia (in Italian).
Chester Music, Gian Francesco Malipiero: L'Orfeide
Cooke, Mervyn, The Cambridge Companion to Twentieth-century Opera, Cambridge University Press, 2005. ISBN 0-521-78009-8
Courir, Duilio Nono, profeta in patria, Corriere della Sera, 14 June 1993, p. 14. Accessed 28 June 2009.
Gatti, Guido Maggiorino (ed.), L'Opera di Gian Francesco Malipiero (essays by various authors and the catalogue of Malpiero's works with commentary and annotation by the composer), Edizioni di Treviso, 1952.
Gelli, Piero (ed.), "Orfeide, L'", Dizionario dell'Opera, Baldini Castoldi Dalai, 2007, ISBN 88-6073-184-4. Accessed online 16 March 2009.
Gulevich, Tanya, Encyclopedia of Easter, Carnival, and Lent, Omnigraphics, 2002. ISBN 0-7808-0432-5
Malipiero, Gian Francesco, L'Orfeide (Libretto in the original Italian)
Manfriani, Franco, Mito e contemporaneità, Edizioni Pendragon, 2007. ISBN 88-8342-547-2
Oja, Carol J., Making Music Modern, Oxford University Press US, 2000. ISBN 0-19-505849-6
Oliver, Michael E., Gian Francesco Malipiero: L'Orfeide, Gramophone, April 1997, Page 94. Accessed 28 June 2009.
Sadie, Stanley, The New Grove Dictionary of Opera, Macmillan Press, 1992. ISBN 0-333-48552-1
Warrack, John and West, Ewan, "Orfeide, L'", The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Opera, 1996. Accessed online via subscription 25 June 2009.
Waterhouse, John C. G., La musica di Gian Francesco Malipiero, Nuova Eri, 1990. ISBN 88-397-0444-2
Waterhouse, John C. G., Gian Francesco Malipiero (1882–1973): The life, times and music of a wayward genius, Taylor & Francis, 1999. ISBN 90-5702-210-9
Extracts from the libretto and extensive notes on the work curated by Laureto Rodoni
L'Orfeide (Malipiero): Scores at the International Music Score Library Project
Shannon County is the name of a county in the United States:
Shannon County, Missouri
Oglala Lakota County, South Dakota, formerly Shannon County
Cordéac (French pronunciation: [kɔʁdeak]; Occitan: Cordeac) is a former commune in the Isère department in southeastern France. On 1 January 2017, it was merged into the new commune Châtel-en-Trièves.
Communes of the Isère department
Grande Tête de l'Obiou
When Night is Falling is a 1995 Canadian drama film directed by Patricia Rozema and starring Pascale Bussières and Rachael Crawford. It was entered into the 45th Berlin International Film Festival.
Camille Baker (Pascale Bussières) is a university literature professor at a religious college in a long-term relationship with fellow professor Martin (Henry Czerny). When her dog runs away and she finds him dead on the street, she ends up crying in the middle of the laundromat where she is approached by Petra (Rachael Crawford), who comforts her. Later on Camille realizes that her laundry was mixed up with Petra's and finds a business card inside the laundry bag. Going to return Petra's clothes she finds that Petra is a circus performer, and when she goes to Petra's trailer to retrieve her clothes Petra tells her that she would like to sleep with her. Confused and uncomfortable, Camille grabs her clothes and leaves. Petra later tracks Camille down and shoots an arrow through her window with a picture of herself and her phone number attached. Camille invites Petra inside and ends up kissing her before running away.
Camille and Martin are being groomed to take over for the university chaplain, with the chaplain hinting heavily that they must marry in order to be promoted. At the interview Camille refuses to denounce homosexuality as a sin, and when asked what she would do if a male student came to her for advice on being attracted to another man, Camille cannot answer the question. Martin believes that Camille is acting unusual on purpose because of her discomfort over their future marriage, and embraces her. They are seen by Petra, who was waiting outside Camille's office. Afterwards Camille goes to see Petra, ostensibly to ask Petra to stop following her, but instead ends up asking her to become her friend after telling her that the kiss was a mistake.
Petra takes Camille hang-gliding, and though Camille is initially reluctant to participate, Petra urges her onward by telling her that night is falling and they will miss their chance if they don't hurry. While hang gliding Camille ends up injuring her knee. Petra takes her home and then massages her, with the massage quickly turning sexual as Petra unbuttons her blouse and takes off Camille's bra. They are interrupted by the university chaplain (David Fox) visiting Camille. Camille passes Petra off as an acquaintance, and when she refuses to leave, excuses her to the chaplain by saying she is a disturbed street kid. Petra leaves in anger and Camille goes to Martin's house, where she has sex with him. However, when Martin leaves to go to a conference, Camille cannot stop herself from fantasizing about Petra and goes to the circus to see her, where the two have sex.
Camille goes to the chaplain seeking guidance, and he is more understanding than she anticipated. She goes to the circus where Petra and the rest of the performers are celebrating an invitation to Circumstance, a festival for Circus performers. She and Petra begin a relationship and they discuss the possibility of Camille joining Petra in the circus. Meanwhile, Martin, who has returned from his trip, waits for Camille in her home and finds the picture of Petra with her number written on it. He goes to the circus and sees Camille and Petra naked in the trailer. After Camille leaves without seeing him he introduces himself to Petra and then leaves, but not before hitting the outside of her trailer in anger, scaring Petra.
Camille meanwhile heads home to break up with Martin, and is surprised to find him already there. He urges her to think before she speaks, telling her that they have a good relationship and suggesting that her passion for Petra will fade. Thinking things over, Camille heads into the woods to finally bury her dead dog, whom she had kept in the fridge until that point. After burying the dog, she begins drinking and passes out in a snowbank. She is found by the hang gliders who had joined her and Petra on their first outing as friends. They call Petra and she rushes to Camille's side, wrapping her body around her and trying to revive her. Once revived Camille joins Petra and the circus on their way to Circumstance. The director of the circus (Tracy Wright), who had dreamed of running away, stays in the city where she and Martin spot each other outside a café.
When Night is Falling gained publicity in Canada when The Globe and Mail pulled advertising for the film featuring an image of two women almost kissing. It opened on 4 screens in Canada on May 5, 1995. It was given the NC-17 rating by the MPAA, though it surrendered the rating; it was then released with no rating. The film was later released onto video with two versions: the original unrated version, and an R rated cut. The film makers appealed the NC-17 rating because of the highly negative stigma associated with NC-17 rated films at the time, and because the NC-17 rating restricted the distribution and actual sales of such movies. The appeal, however, was declined, so When Night is Falling was released unrated.
When Night is Falling received mixed reviews: Siskel & Ebert both gave it "thumbs down"; while Rotten Tomatoes reports an approval rating of 53% based on 17 reviews, with a weighted average of 5.7/10.
AfterEllen's review was that "this movie is certainly a must see," with "gorgeous cinematography, elegant and symbolic references to mythology and a deliciously satisfying sex scene between two feminine women with amazing chemistry." Re-examined 11 years later, the AfterEllen reviewer declared it, "one of the worst movies I have ever loved with a full-hearted, unconstrained passion. It has virtually no redeeming qualities, and yet I challenge even the most intellectually rigorous critic not to delight in it."
In 2010, Curve placed it number 3 on a list of six lesbian movies to swoon over.
The film grossed $32,835 in its opening weekend in Canada.
List of LGBT films directed by women
When Night Is Falling at IMDb
Harry Leon Wilson (May 1, 1867 – June 28, 1939) was an American novelist and dramatist best known for his novels Ruggles of Red Gap and Merton of the Movies. Another of his works, Bunker Bean, helped popularize the term "flapper". It was adapted into a play and film. Several of his other novels were also adapted to film, some more than once.
Harry Leon Wilson was born in Oregon, Illinois to Samuel and Adeline (née Kidder). His father was a newspaper publisher, and Harry learned to set type at an early age. He went to public schools and enjoyed reading Bret Harte and Mark Twain. He learned shorthand and secretarial skills.
Wilson left home at 16 and worked for the Union Pacific Railroad as a stenographer in Topeka, Kansas, Omaha, Nebraska, Denver, Colorado, and eventually he came to California in 1887. He was a contributor to the histories of Hubert Howe Bancroft, and became the private secretary to Virgil Bogue.
In December 1886, Wilson's story "The Elusive Dollar Bill" was accepted by Puck magazine. He continued to contribute to Puck and became assistant editor in 1892. Henry Cuyler Bunner died in 1896 and Wilson replaced him as editor.
Wilson's first wife was Wilbertine Nesselrode Teters Worden, whom he married in 1898. The marriage ended in divorce in 1900. In 1902, he married Rose Cecil O'Neill Latham. O'Neill and Wilson worked together at Puck, and she was the illustrator for four of his books; they divorced in 1907. Wilson's black and white pit bull dog named Sprangle was the inspiration for Rose O'Neill's biscuit porcelain Kewpie dog figure, known to the world as "Kewpiedoodle dog" and sold worldwide by importer George Borgfeldt.
The publication of The Spenders allowed Wilson to quit Puck in 1902 and devote himself full-time to writing.
I had to live ten years in New York. It was then a simple town, with few street lights north of Forty-second street. Now the place is pretty terrible to me, perhaps the ugliest city in the world. I decided that the only way to get out of New York was to write a successful novel. So I tried with The Spenders and when I got a substantial advance from publishers, I quit my job and beat it for the high hills of Colorado.
—Harry Leon Wilson
Wilson returned to New York where he met Booth Tarkington in 1904. Tarkington and Wilson traveled together to Europe in 1905. The two completed the play The Man from Home in 1906 in Paris. Wilson was elected to the National Institute of Arts and Letters in 1908.
Wilson returned from Europe and settled permanently into the Bohemian colony at Carmel-by-the-Sea, California in 1910, which included Jack London, Mary Hunter Austin, George Sterling, Upton Sinclair, Xavier Martinez, Ambrose Bierce, Alice MacGowan, Sinclair Lewis, Francis McComas, and Arnold Genthe. It was during this period that Wilson wrote the books for which he is best known: Bunker Bean (1913) and Ruggles of Red Gap (1915).
In 1912, Wilson married Helen MacGowan Cooke, the daughter of Grace MacGowan Cooke and the niece of Alice MacGowan. Wilson moved from Carmel to Carmel Highlands where he built a home he called "The Ocean Home." The home had 12 rooms on 8 acres (3.2 ha) of land and was completed in 1912. The couple had two children, Harry Leon Wilson Jr. in 1913 and Charis Wilson in 1914.
In 1914, someone attempted to murder Alice MacGowan by poison and to steal her diamonds and cash; Wilson and writer Jimmy Hopper became amateur detectives, but the perpetrator was never discovered.
After a brief stint in Hollywood, Wilson wrote Merton of the Movies in 1922.
In March 1922, Wilson fought and lost a highly publicized "duel of fists" with landscape painter Theodore Morrow Criley. Details of their long-standing feud made banner headlines in the San Francisco press and were given prominent coverage across the country on the International News Wire, including stories in the Los Angeles Times and New York Times. It was revealed that their argument originated with "a light romantic" love scene between Criley and Wilson's wife in the 1921 production of Pomander Walk at Carmel's Forest Theatre. Wilson sent Criley a series of accusatory letters, including a 24-page invective, and demanded satisfaction in this "affair of honor". He spent three months in Honolulu undergoing physical training and instruction in boxing, then he returned and the two men met on "a high cliff overlooking the sea". Criley thrashed Wilson in ten minutes.
In 1925, Wilson built a two-story commercial building for Helen, who ran a flower shop called the Bloomin' Basement. It was in front of the two-story Golden Bough Theater on Ocean Avenue in downtown Carmel. It later became a popular Bohemian bar and restaurant, Sade's.
Wilson and Cooke divorced in 1927.
A severe auto accident in 1932 greatly affected Wilson's health during his remaining years. He died of a brain hemorrhage on June 28, 1939, while residing with friends at Carmel Point. He was 72 years of age.
Booth Tarkington
Zigzag Tales from the East to the West (1894)
The Spenders: A Tale of the Third Generation (1902) illustrated by Rose Cecil O'Neill; adapted into the 1921 film The Spenders.
The Lions of the Lord, a Tale of the Old West (1903) illustrated by Rose Cecil O'Neill
The Seeker (1904) illustrated by Rose Cecil O'Neill
The Boss of Little Arcady (1905) illustrated by Rose Cecil O'Neill
Ewing's Lady (1907)
The Man from Home (1908) co-written with Booth Tarkington; adapted into two films, The Man from Home (1914) and The Man from Home (1922).
Cameo Kirby (1908) co-written with Booth Tarkington; adapted into three films, Cameo Kirby (1914), Cameo Kirby (1923) and Cameo Kirby (1930).
Foreign Exchange (1909) co-written with Booth Tarkington
Springtime (1909) co-written with Booth Tarkington; adapted into the 1914 film Springtime.
If I Had Money (1909) co-written with Booth Tarkington
Your Humble Servant (1910) co-written with Booth Tarkington
Bunker Bean (originally published in 1912 as a serialized novel with the title His Majesty Bunker Bean in The Saturday Evening Post; published in book form as Bunker Bean by Doubleday in 1913) illustrated by Frederic R. Gruger; adapted into three films, His Majesty, Bunker Bean (1918), His Majesty, Bunker Bean (1925) and Bunker Bean (1936).
Ruggles of Red Gap (1915) illustrated by Frederic R. Gruger; adapted into four films, Ruggles of Red Gap (1918), Ruggles of Red Gap (1923), Ruggles of Red Gap (1935) and Fancy Pants (1950).
The Man from Home: A Novel (1915) based on the play
Somewhere in Red Gap (1916) illustrated by John R. Neill
Life (1919) play
The Gibson Upright (1919) co-written with Booth Tarkington
Ma Pettengill (1919)
The Wrong Twin (1921) illustrated by Frederic R. Gruger
Merton of the Movies (1922) adapted into three films, Merton of the Movies (1924), Make Me a Star (1932), and Merton of the Movies (1947)
So This Is Golf! 1923)
Oh, Doctor! (1923) adapted into the two films, Oh Doctor! (1925) and Oh, Doctor (1937).
Ma Pettengill Talks (1923)
Professor How Could You! (1924)
Tweedles (1924) co-written with Booth Tarkington
Cousin Jane (1925)
Lone Tree (1929)
How's Your Health? (1930) co-written with Booth Tarkington
Two Black Sheep (1931)
When in the Course-- (1940)
Works by Harry Leon Wilson at Project Gutenberg
Works by or about Harry Leon Wilson at the Internet Archive
Works by Harry Leon Wilson at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks)
Harry Leon Wilson at IMDb
Harry Leon Wilson at the Internet Broadway Database
Harry Leon Wilson Papers, ca. 1879-1939 at the Bancroft Library at the University of California
Harry Leon Wilson at the Library of Congress, with 50 library catalog records
The Book of Roads and Kingdoms (Arabic: كِتَاب ٱلْمَسَالِك وَٱلْمَمَالِك, romanized: Kitāb al-Masālik wa-l-Mamālik) is a 9th-century geography text written by the Persian geographer Ibn Khordadbeh. It maps and describes the major trade routes of the time within the Muslim world, and discusses distant trading regions such as Japan, Korea, and China. It was written around 870 CE, during the reign of Al-Muʿtamid of the Abbasid Caliphate, while its author was Director of Posts and Police for the Abbasid province of Jibal in modern-day Iran.
The work uses much of the Persian administrative terms, gives considerable attention to pre-Islamic Iranian history, and uses the "native Iranian cosmological division system of the world". These all show "the existence of Iranian sources at the core of the work".
The book is also referred to in English as The Book of Roads and Provinces.
Ibn Khordadbeh (1865). Des routes et des Provinces (in French). Translator: Charles Barbier de Meynard. Paris: Journal Asiatique.
اﻟﻤﺴﺎﻟﻚ واﻟﻤﻤﺎﻟﻚ
المسالك والممالك – resource for Arabic books – الوراق
المسالك والممالك لابن خرداذبة ونبذ من كتاب الخراج وصناعة الكتابة للبغدادي
Kałęczyn [kaˈwɛnt͡ʂɨn] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Czerwonka, within Maków County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland.
Alex Perolli (December 7, 1915 – March 19, 1994) was an Albanian football coach best known for coaching the Los Angeles Aztecs to a North American Soccer League championship in 1974. The following season, he coached the San Antonio Thunder for 9 games before being fired, having won only one match.
In 1955, Perolli coached the Italy U23. In 1970, he coached the Rochester Lancers for 13 games before leaving midway through the season. He coached the Mexican side Vera Cruz in 1973 before taking the helm of the expansion Aztecs the following year. On 25 September 1974, Perolli was named head coach of the San Antonio Thunder. He returned to the Lancers a decade later 8 games into the 1980 season. In 1961, he coached Montreal Cantalia in the Eastern Canada Professional Soccer League, and later with Montreal Concordia which played a dual season in the International Soccer League and National Soccer League. In 1969, he was the head coach for Toronto Hellas in the National Soccer League. He had another run in the NSL in 1976 with the Buffalo Blazers.
Higashiiyayama (東祖谷山村, Higashiiyayama-son) was a village located in Miyoshi District, Tokushima Prefecture, Japan.
As of 2003, the village had an estimated population of 2,114 and a density of 9.25 persons per km2. The total area was 228.62 km2.
On March 1, 2006, Higashiiyayama, along with the towns of Ikawa, Ikeda, Mino and Yamashiro, and the village of Nishiiyayama (all from Miyoshi District), was merged to create the city of Miyoshi.
Situated near the border with Kōchi Prefecture, it has much precipitation, mostly due to the East Asian rainy season. In the winter, there is much snowfall in this mountainous town. Mount Tsurugi, the second highest mountain in Shikoku at 1955 metres is located here.
Mountains: Mount Tsurugi, Miune
Rivers: Iya River
Tokushima Prefecture
Kōchi Prefecture
Official website (in Japanese)
Katwitwi is a border crossing in the Kavango West region in the north of Namibia, approximately 35 km northwest of the town of Nkurenkuru. The settlement was granted in 2016 and is located on the left bank of the Kavango River at the border to Angola. The border crossing was connected to Tsumeb by the national road B15 in December 2013.
Nathan Lloyd Stewart-Jarrett is an English actor. He starred as Curtis Donovan in the E4 series Misfits (2009–2012) and Ian in the Channel 4 series Utopia (2013–2014). He is also known for his theatre work, earning a WhatsOnStage Award nomination for his performance in Angels in America. His films include The Comedian (2012), War Book (2014), Mope (2019), Candyman (2021), and Femme (2023), for which he won a British Independent Film Award.
Nathan Lloyd Stewart-Jarrett was born in 1985 in Wandsworth, South London.
He attended the BRIT School, then went on to train at the Royal Central School of Speech and Drama.
Stewart-Jarrett made his professional stage debut with a number of roles in Brixton Stories at the Lyric, Hammersmith, and was in the fourth cast of The History Boys at the National Theatre.
From 2009 to 2012, Stewart starred in the E4 series Misfits as Curtis Donovan, a role he played for the first four series, making him Misfits' longest running cast member and the last remaining original cast member until he was written out during the fourth series. In 2012, he appeared in the revival of Pitchfork Disney at the Arcola Theatre.
The year after leaving Misfits, Jarrett began starring as Ian Johnson in the Channel 4 conspiracy thriller series Utopia and made his feature film debut in the crime comedy Dom Hemingway. He also appeared in a music video by Years&Years called "Real" released in 2014.
Stewart-Jarrett played the drag queen Belize, Prior Walter's (Andrew Garfield) friend, in the 2017 National Theatre production of Tony Kushner's Angels in America directed by Marianne Elliott, for which Stewart-Jarrett was nominated for the WhatsOnStage Award for Best Supporting Actor in a Play. He made his Broadway debut when the show transferred to the Neil Simon Theatre in 2018.
In 2019, Stewart-Jarrett portrayed actor Steve Driver in the biographical film Mope and Johnny Edgecombe in the BBC One miniseries The Trial of Christine Keeler. He also had a recurring role in Four Weddings and a Funeral on Hulu and a small role in the family film The Kid Who Would Be King. This was followed in 2020 by roles in the film The Argument and the BBC series Dracula.
In 2021, Stewart-Jarrett made a guest appearance in the Doctor Who special "Revolution of the Daleks", starred as Troy Cartwright in the Candyman sequel, and had a main role as guidance counsellor Sam in the HBO Max teen comedy-drama Generation (stylised as Genera+ion).
Stewart-Jarrett stars opposite George MacKay in the thriller film Femme, which premiered at the 73rd Berlinale in 2023. and has a leading role in the Star (Disney+) heist series Culprits.
In September 2025, Stewart-Jarrett stars as Jack Worthing in the National Theatre's production Oscar Wilde's The Importance of Being Earnest at the Noël Coward Theatre.
Anansi Boys (2017), as Spider (6 episodes)
List of British actors
Nathan Stewart-Jarrett at IMDb
Halegrapha paulseniana is a species of bark-dwelling script lichen in the family Graphidaceae. It forms a cream-white crust on tree bark and produces elongated, branching, script-like fruiting bodies with a partly exposed dark disc. The species was described in 2018 and was the first member of its genus recorded from Hawaii. It is known only from montane forest on the slopes of Haleakalā volcano on Maui, where it may be endemic.
Halegrapha paulseniana was described as new to science in 2018 by Rubin Michael Luch and Robert Lücking, based on a collection made in 2013 on the island of Maui (Hawaii) in the lower Waikamoi Preserve on the slopes of Haleakalā. Its description also represented the first documented record of the genus Halegrapha from the Hawaiian Islands.
The species belongs to Halegrapha, a genus of tropical Graphidaceae with a script lichen appearance (elongated fruiting bodies on a pale thallus) but brown, Phaeographis-type spores. In the original treatment, H. paulseniana was distinguished from the most similar species, H. mexicana, by its much larger lirellae that retain a complete, thin thalline margin at the apex; it was separated from other members of the genus by the excipulum, which is often not fully carbonized (blackened) along the sides. The specific epithet honors the German educator and philosopher Friedrich Paulsen (1846–1909), regarded as one of the founders of modern higher secondary education in Germany, and the namesake of the Paulsen-Gymnasium.
Halegrapha paulseniana is a bark-dwelling, crustose lichen that forms a continuous, uneven, cream-white thallus up to about 5 cm (2 in) across. In section, the thallus has a thick upper layer over an irregular algal zone and a distinct medulla, and parts of the thallus are encrusted with grayish crystals; the thallus tissue over the fruiting bodies can contain clusters of calcium oxalate crystals. The photobiont (photosynthetic algal partner) is Trentepohlia.
The fruiting bodies are lirellae (elongated, script-like structures) that are flexuose and irregularly branched, typically 3–8 mm long. They break through the thallus surface and have a thalline margin that is thick on the sides but thin at the top. The disc is partly exposed and dark brown to nearly black, with entire labia (raised edges). The excipulum (the wall surrounding the disc) is largely carbonized, but the lateral portions are often only weakly carbonized or uncarbonized. The asci contain eight spores; the ascospores are oblong to oval, usually 5–7-septate, about 20–25 × 7–8 μm, and turn brown at maturity (becoming darker and shriveled when overmature). No lichen substances were detected by thin-layer chromatography.
Halegrapha paulseniana is known only from the Waikamoi Preserve on Maui, Hawaii, where it was collected at about 1,200–1,300 m (3,900–4,300 ft) elevation in disturbed primary forest on Haleakalā volcano. The site was described as forest dominated by Acacia koa and members of the Campanulaceae, with the invasive ginger Hedychium gardnerianum present in lower parts of the area. Because it has not yet been found elsewhere, it has been treated as a putative Hawaiian endemic. The authors noted that parts of the preserve are threatened by the spread of Hedychium gardnerianum, which can overtake forest ecosystems and may endanger local endemic species.
Polyus (Russian: Полюс) is a research institute and production association in St. Petersburg, Russia. It is part of the Shvabe Holding (Rostec group).
The Polyus Scientific Research Institute (NII Polyus) is closely associated with the Polyus Scientific Production Association (NPO Polyus), a small factory, and the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology, all of which are located at the same address. NPO Polyus produces lasers and associated components, electronics articles, and electrovacuum devices.
NII Polyus works in the field of quantum electronics and develops and manufactures experimental models in the areas of cryoelectronics, magnetism, and electrovacuum devices. NII Polyus oversees several laboratories and production enterprises. These production enterprises are located in Moscow Oblast, Tula, Ulyanovsk, and Nizhny Novgorod Oblasts.
NII Polyus has also developed missile laser technology, including laser gyroscopes for missile nose cone guidance, various other types of solid-state multi-purpose lasers, laser components, and electro-optic equipment. It has also carried out global positioning system work with Aeroflot and MiG aircraft.
The Polyus Scientific Research Institute was established in 1962 on the initiative of Mitrofan Fedorovich Stelmakh, a scientist and specialist in the field of superhigh frequency technology. The Polyus Scientific Research Institute has been named after Stelmakh since 2001. The objectives of the institute were to develop quantum electronics devices for military purposes, medical equipment, and other applications.
In the 1970s, the NGO Polyus association was established. It included the head institute of the Polyus Research Institute, the Ulyanovsk Radio Tube Plant, the Vladykinsky Mechanical Plant, the Bogoroditsky Plant of Technochemical Products, and the Ozersk Mechanical Plant. At that time, the NPO Polyus employed about 20,000 people.
Currently the Institute employs about 1,200 employees, including 15 doctors of sciences, more than 70 candidates of sciences, 20 graduate students, and applicants. There is a graduate school. The MIPT and MIREA have basic departments at the Polyus Scientific Research Institute. Until the mid-2000s, it was also the basic department for the MIEM.
The Institute develops and manufactures laser speed meters, surveillance equipment detectors, semiconductor emitters, optical modules, water treatment systems, and medical equipment.
The General Director of the Institute is Evgeny Viktorovich Kuznetsov.
Official website
The 25th TCA Awards were presented by the Television Critics Association. Chelsea Handler hosted the ceremony on August 1, 2009 at the Langham Huntington Hotel and Spa in Pasadena, Calif.
The following shows received multiple wins:
The following shows received multiple nominations:
Official website
2009 TCA Awards at IMDb.com
The Family of Sigismund I of Poland or Portrait Miniatures of the Jagiellon Family (Polish: Miniatury portretowe rodziny Jagiellonów) is a set of ten portrait miniatures of the Jagiellonian dynasty, produced in the studio of Lucas Cranach the Younger during Bona Sforza's time as queen in Poland after she had married Sigismund I of Poland, c. 1553–1555. They are all now in the Czartoryski Museum.
From left to right, the top row shows Sigismund I the Old of Poland, Bona Sforza, Sigismund II Augustus of Poland (1520–1572), Sigismund II's first wife Elizabeth of Austria, Queen of Poland and Sigismund II's second wife Barbara Radziwiłł. From left to right the bottom row shows Sigismund II's third wife Catherine of Austria (1533–1572) and his sisters Isabella (1519–1559), Catherine (1526–1583), Sophia (1522–1575) and Anna (1523–1596).
Elisabeth Raiser (née Bertha Elisabeth Freiin von Weizsäcker) is a 21st-century historian, former President of the German Evangelical Church Assembly, and daughter of Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker.
Born as Bertha Elisabeth Freiin von Weizsäcker in Zurich, Switzerland on August 18, 1940, Elisabeth Raiser is the daughter of polymath Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker and niece of Richard von Weizsäcker, former president of the Federal Republic of Germany.
Her husband is Reverend Dr. Konrad Raiser.
She studied history and Romance languages and, like her mother before her, earned her doctorate in history from the University of Hamburg. In addition, she has been active with various ecumenical activities throughout her life, and served as the president of the first German Evangelical Church Assembly.
In June 2018, she and her husband spoke at the Pfarrhaustreff in Diedersdorf and introduced a short version of Kreisgang, the film she directed regarding her father's life and work as a philosopher, physicist and peace activist. The film explores the spiritual experiences which helped shape her father throughout his life, according to Potsdam's Märkische Allgemeine, including the "divine grace [which] prevented him and his colleagues from having to build the atomic bomb for Hitler" during the period he worked with Werner Heisenberg and Otto Hahn on Germany's uranium project.
Evangelische Kirche in Deutschland site
Wayne Stahl is a Republican member of the Montana Legislature. He was elected to House District 35 which represents the Saco, Montana area.
Vladislav Vadimovich Shpitalny (Russian: Владислав Вадимович Шпитальный; born 5 September 1996) is a Russian footballer who plays as a midfielder for Sokol Saratov.
Shpitalny made his debut in the Russian Football National League for Sokol Saratov on 15 October 2016 in a game against Yenisey Krasnoyarsk.
His father Vadim Shpitalny played in the Russian First Division for Sokol Saratov and Amkar Perm. His grandfather, also called Vadim Shpitalny, played for Sokol Saratov in the Soviet First League and then was the manager of Sokol.
Profile by Russian Football National League
Vladislav Shpitalny at FootballFacts.ru (in Russian)
Vladislav Shpitalny at Soccerway
Barbara Ann Kipfer (born 1954) is a lexicographer, linguist, ontologist, and part-time archaeologist. She has written more than 70 books and calendars, including 14,000 Things to be Happy About (Workman), which has more than 1.5 million copies in print. The 25th anniversary edition of the book was published in 2014. She is the editor of Roget's International Thesaurus 5th-8th editions.
Kipfer holds an MPhil and PhD in linguistics (University of Exeter), a PhD in archaeology (Greenwich University), an MA and PhD in Buddhist Studies (Akamai University), and a BS in Physical Education (Valparaiso University). She is a Registered Professional Archaeologist.
Kipfer is senior lexicographer of Zeta Global.
Roget's International Thesaurus, New York: HarperCollins; 8th Ed., 2019
The Happiness Diary, Beverly MA: Fair Winds, 2019
Natural Meditation, New York: Helios, July 2018
1,001 Ways to Be Creative, Washington DC: National Geographic, 2018
1,001 Ways to Slow Down, Washington DC: National Geographic, 2017
Color Your Happy Home with Durell Godfrey, New York: Harlequin, 2017
How Would Buddha Think?, San Francisco: New Harbinger, 2016
14,000 Things to be Happy About Page a Day Calendar 2017, New York: Workman, 2016
1,001 Ways to Live Wild, Washington DC: National Geographic Books, 2016
How Would Buddha Act?, San Francisco: New Harbinger, 2016
What Would Buddha Say?. New Harbinger, 2014.
Breath Perception. Skyhorse, 2014, ISBN 9781629143682.
It's Good to Talk: More Than 10,000 Questions to Ask and Think About (e-book). 2013.
A Commonplace Book (e-book). 2012.
Smiles: 8,000 Sunny-Side-Up Thoughts (e-book). 2012.
Good Nature (e-book). 2011.
Life Needs a Menu: A Foodie List (e-book). 2011.
The Culinarian: A Kitchen Desk Reference. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2011, ISBN 047055424X
Introduction to Lexicography (e-book). 2010.
Kipfer's Lists (e-book). 2010.
Things for Kids to Do (e-book). 2010.
The Next Order of Things: Cycles, Sequences, & Processes (e-book). 2010.
The Buddha's Lists (e-book). 2008.
Time Capsule: Things to be Nostalgic About (e-book). 2008.
Instant Karma. Workman, 2003, ISBN 0761128042.
Roget’s Descriptive Word Finder. Writer's Digest, 2003.
Roget’s Thesaurus of Phrases. Writer's Digest, 2001.
8,789 Words of Wisdom. Workman, 2001, ISBN 076111730X.
Flip Dictionary. Writer's Digest, 2000.
Encyclopedic Dictionary of Archaeology. Springer, 2000.
5,001 Things for Kids to Do. Plume, 2000.
The Wish List. Workman, 1997, ISBN 0761107568.
The Order of Things. Random House, 1997.
A reference compilation outlining its contents in thirteen areas of classification; it contains schematic illustrations, dates, and numerous lists.
USA Today Crossword Puzzle Dictionary. Hyperion, 1996.
Dictionary of American Slang, contributor to 3rd edition, HarperCollins, 1995, ISBN 006270107X.
1,400 Things for Kids to be Happy About. Workman, 1994, ISBN 1563052385.
Bartlett's Book of Business Quotations. Little, Brown, 1994, ISBN 0316082910.
Bartlett's Book of Love Quotations. Little, Brown, 1994, ISBN 0316082929.
Sisson's Word and Expression Locater, revised 2nd edition. Prentice-Hall, 1994, ISBN 013814088X.
21st Century Manual of Style. Dell/Laurel, 1993, ISBN 0440504899.
21st Century Spelling Dictionary. Dell/Laurel, 1993, ISBN 0440212324.
21st Century Synonym and Antonym Finder. Dell/Laurel, 1993, ISBN 0440213231.
Random House Kid’s Encyclopedia. Knowledge Adventure, 1993
Roget's 21st Century Thesaurus in Dictionary Form. Dell, 1992, ISBN 0440503868.
14,000 Things to be Happy About. Workman, 1990, ISBN 0894803700.
Workbook on Lexicography. University of Exeter Press, 1984, ISBN 0859892603.
Things to Be Happy About
Barbara Ann Kipfer art
Valdimir Ferraz Matias Nunes (born 6 October 1989), commonly known as Valdinho, is an Angolan professional footballer who plays as a winger for Vila Meã.
In January 2013, Valdinho signed for Primeira Liga side Gil Vicente.
Valdinho at ForaDeJogo (archived)
UFC Fight Night: Hernandez vs. Rodrigues (also known as UFC Fight Night 285) is an upcoming mixed martial arts event produced by the Ultimate Fighting Championship that is scheduled to take place on August 22, 2026, at the Golden 1 Center in Sacramento, California.
The event will mark the promotion's seventh visit to Sacramento and first since UFC Fight Night: de Randamie vs. Ladd in July 2019. There were initial reports that the event would take place at the Meta Apex in Las Vegas, Nevada, but for undisclosed reasons, it was later shifted to Sacramento.
A middleweight bout between former LFA Middleweight Champions Anthony Hernandez and Gregory Rodrigues is scheduled to headline the event.
Lightweight bout: Mason Jones vs. MarQuel Mederos
Lightweight bout: Nasrat Haqparast vs. Chris Padilla
Featherweight bout: Jamall Emmers vs. Lerryan Douglas
List of current UFC fighters
List of UFC events
Sumbul Touqeer (born 15 November 2003) is an Indian actress who primarily works in Hindi television. She is best known for her roles in Imlie and Kavya – Ek Jazbaa, Ek Junoon. She also has received a nomination for Indian Television Academy Award and Indian Telly Awards. In 2022, she participated in Bigg Boss 16.
Sumbul Touqeer was born in Shahjahanpur, Uttar Pradesh and lived in Katni, Madhya Pradesh until she was six. At age six, her parents separated and her father Touqeer Hasan Khan brought Sumbul and her younger sister Saniya to Delhi, where they spent the next 5–6 years. Sumbul and Saniya were raised by their father as a single parent.
Sumbul completed high school at NTCC High School in Malad West, Mumbai and 12th standard from a private school.
Sumbul has trained as an actor with the Sehejmoodra Acting Academy.
She began her acting career with supporting roles as a child in Har Mushkil Ka Hal Akbar Birbal on Big Magic and Jodha Akbar on Zee TV in 2014. Sumbul participated in dance reality shows Hindustan Ka Big Star on Big Magic in 2014. From 2014 to 2016, she appeared in TV series such as Aahat, Gangaa, Baalveer, and Mann Mein Vishwaas Hai as a child artist. Between 2016 and 2019, she featured in series including Waaris, Chakradhari Ajay Krishna, Chandragupta Maurya, and Ishaaron Ishaaron Mein.
In 2019, she was cast in Hindi-language crime drama film Article 15 starring Ayushmann Khurrana, where she played the role of Amali. That same year, she appeared in the music video for the song "Vaaste."
In 2020, Touqeer achieved a turning point in her career when she was cast to play the roles of Imlie, a smart village girl in the StarPlus show Imlie, alongside Gashmeer Mahajani, Fahmaan Khan, and Mayuri Deshmukh. Her pairing with Khan was appreciated, for which they were nominated for Indian Telly Award for Best Onscreen Couple. In 2022, she participated in the game show Ravivaar With Star Parivaar as a contestant from Imlie. In the same year, she appeared in the music video "Ishq Ho Gaya" opposite Fahmaan Khan.
From 2022 to 2023, she participated in Colors TV's captive reality show Bigg Boss 16. She finished at the seventh place after spending 125 days in the house. Touqeer was the highest paid contestant of the season. In 2023, she took part in the game show Entertainment Ki Raat Housefull on Colors TV and appeared in the "Sazishen" music video.
She returned to television in the same year with Kavya – Ek Jazbaa, Ek Junoon on Sony Entertainment Television, playing the lead character of IAS Kavya Bansal, opposite Mishkat Varma.
Sumbul Touqeer at IMDb
Sumbul Touqeer on Instagram
Boituva is a municipality in the state of São Paulo in Brazil. It is part of the Metropolitan Region of Sorocaba. The population is 62,170 (2020 est.) in an area of 248.97 km2. The elevation is 637 metres.
It is known as the "National Skydive Capital". In Tupi, Boituva means "many snakes".
The first inhabitants that formed the settlement called at that time Boituva Fields, began settling here in the late 18th century according to official history.
Some scholars affirm that the pioneers of Boituva arrived by train, the former Sorocabana Railway. Others, however assert that the first inhabitants were ex-workers of the then extinct iron smeltery on Ipanema farm, thus closed, forcing them to acquire neighboring lands.
In the second or third decade Boituva gained fame – and is known until today – as The Land of Pineapple, since the first culture on a large scale was pineapple. The quality of the fruit was such that it was awarded a gold medal in a national level exposition, realized in São Paulo, thus emerging the Boituvana variety of pineapple.
The political-administrative emancipation of Boituva occurred on September 6, 1937, the date of which is now commemorated with the celebration known as Boituvana.
On 11 May 2022 a LBK Serviço Aéreo Especializado, operating for Skydive4Fun, Cessna 208 Caravan registration PT-OQR, during initial climb from Boituva-Centro Nacional de Páraquedismo Airfield, SP (SDOI) crashed in a field due to a loss of engine power and come to rest inverted next to a transmission tower. Two of the 16 occupants died of their injuries sustained in the accident.
In telecommunications, the city was served by Companhia Telefônica Brasileira until 1973, when it began to be served by Telecomunicações de São Paulo. In July 1998, this company was acquired by Telefónica, which adopted the Vivo brand in 2012.
The company is currently an operator of cell phones, fixed lines, internet (fiber optics/4G) and television (satellite and cable).
(Music and lyrics by Roberto Resendo Camargo)
No antigo bairro "Campo de Boituva", desbravadores chegando aqui
Chamaram-te "Mboy-tuba" - muitas cobras, na lingua indígena tupí
A terra abençoada e prometida da fé que faz a força do labor
Da hospitalidade e o dom de bem servir
Ao próximo com muito amor!
Boituva, boituva, terra onde reside a paz...
Quem chegou ficou, quem partiu chorou,
E não te esquece nunca mais!
O trem de ferro da "Sorocabana" fez o progresso chegar aqui...
Na época a cidade criou fama com as lavouras do abacaxi,
Depois o algodão e hoje a cana, são frutos do teu solo produtor,
Uniram-se a industria e o comércio aos ideais do agricultor.
As chácaras, o camping, as fazendas, os grandes haras, tudo isso faz
Àqueles que procuram o aconchego, em teu sossego buscar a paz...
O centro do civil paraquedismo, O polo do turismo e do lazer...
Boituva nós sentimos ufanismo: é ótimo seu filho ser.
O povo te dedica uma semana: a "Boituvana" que é tradição...
A "Águia da Castelo" se engalana e te proclama com emoção.
E ao comemorar seis de setembro, relembra teu passado triunfal,
E faz do seu presente uma certeza:
Que hoje és glória regional!
List of municipalities in São Paulo
Interior of São Paulo
(in Portuguese) Prefeitura Municipal (City Hall) Archived 2011-07-14 at the Wayback Machine
(in Portuguese) Gazeta Boituvense
(in Portuguese) Nosso Jornal
The 1997 Norwest Sun Bowl featured the Iowa Hawkeyes and the Arizona State Sun Devils.
After a scoreless first quarter, Arizona State scored first, with a 35-yard touchdown pass from quarterback Steve Campbell to wide receiver Lenzie Jackson to give ASU an early 7–0 lead. Kicker Robert Nycz kicked a 20-yard field goal to increase the lead to 10–0.
In the third quarter, running back Michael Martin scored on a 1-yard touchdown run to give ASU a 17–0 lead. In the fourth quarter, quarterback Randy Reiners threw a 26-yard touchdown pass to wide receiver Richard Carter.
The game was played between the Iowa Hawkeyes from the Big Ten Conference and the Arizona State Sun Devils from the Pac-10 Conference. This was the first overall meeting and first postseason meeting between the programs.
Iowa entered the game with a 7–4 record (4–4 in conference). After lofty preseason expectations, they finished tied for sixth place in the Big Ten standings. The Hawkeyes went 1–2 versus the ranked teams they faced; losing at Ohio State and at Michigan in consecutive weeks before defeating Purdue at Kinnick Stadium.
Arizona entered the game with a 8–3 record (6–2 in conference). They finished in third place in the Pac-10 Conference standings. The Sun Devils were 3–1 against ranked opponents, defeating Miami (FL), Stanford, and Washington State while losing to Washington. They started their season 3–2, then won five in a row before finishing the regular season with a loss to rival Arizona.
USA Today recap of game
Aleksander Denstad With (born 30 June 1987) is a Norwegian musician who won season 4 of the TV show Idol in May 2006, becoming the youngest person ever to win the competition.
Aleksander released his first album, titled 'Coming Home', on 23 October 2006. The album was a major success and peaked at #4 on the Top 40 Norwegian Albums Chart upon release. So far, "A Little Too Perfect", "The Other Side" and "Free Ride" have been released as singles from the album.
On 1 December 2007, Aleksander performed alongside Norwegian Pop-Rock artist, Marion Raven, at the Norwegian "Idol Gives Back" show.
He was born in Trondheim.
WimpyLime were an unsigned project Aleksander and his former girlfriend, Vivian Sørmeland (who came third in Idol (Norway) Season 4) were a part of from the summer of 2004 until Idol in 2006. WimpyLime wrote all of their material as a group and together could play the keyboard, piano, guitar, bass, and drums. Aleksander and Vivian were the band's lead vocalists. Only two demos clips have leaked from WimpyLime's recorded catalog, one titled "Southern Skies" and another titled "The Secret". Members: Vivian Sørmeland, Aleksander With, Olav S. Flaa, Arne Fredrik Lånke
Audition: "Dancing Shoes" Gavin DeGraw
Top 40: "Chariot" by Gavin DeGraw
Top 12: "Trouble" by Coldplay
Top 11: "American Woman" by Lenny Kravitz
Top 10: "Have Fun, Go Mad" by Blair
Top 9: "Unloved" by Espen Lind
Top 8: "I Don't Wanna Be" by Gavin DeGraw
Top 7: "The Way You Make Me Feel" by Michael Jackson
Top 6: "Glorious" by Andreas Johnson
Top 5: "Spider-Man Theme" by Michael Bublé
Top 4: "Everybody Hurts" by R.E.M.
Top 4: "One" (duet with Vivian Sørmeland) by U2 and Mary J. Blige
Top 3: "I've Been Losing You" by a-ha
Top 3: "Kiss From A Rose" by Seal
Finale: "Glorious" by Andreas Johnson
Finale: "Kiss From A Rose" by Seal
Finale: "A Little Too Perfect" (Winning Single)
Aleksander With Archived 2020-09-23 at the Wayback Machine, Official Site
Aleksander With, Official Myspace
Aleksander With, Blog/Vlog
Official Myspace
St. Johannis is a common name for several churches in Germany dedicated to or named after Johannes (St. John):
St. Johannis, Ansbach
St. Johannis Harvestehude Hamburg
Neustädter Hof- und Stadtkirche St. Johannis zu Hannover
St. Johannis, Lüneburg
It is also the name of a part of Nuremberg.
Zora may refer to:
Zora (given name), a name of Arabic, Slavic, African origin
Zora language, a Kainji language of Nigeria
Zora (spider), a genus of spiders in the family Zoridae
Zora (TV series), a Kenyan soap opera-drama series
Zora (album), a 2024 album by Sheppard
Zora (The Legend of Zelda), a fictional race in The Legend of Zelda series
Zora (vampire), an Italian comic book erotic character from the 1970s
Zora (magazine), a literature journal published by Bosnian Serb intelligentsia
Zora, Missouri, United States
Zora, Pennsylvania, the site of a Civil War skirmish near Monterey Pass
ZORA, a website for women of color published by Medium
FK Zora, a Montenegrin football club
The Permanent Secretary to the Scottish Government (Scottish Gaelic: Rùnaire Maireannach Riaghaltas na h-Alba) is the most senior civil servant in Scotland who leads more than 7,000 staff within the Scottish Government and has oversight of around 125 agencies.
The role of permanent secretary originally headed the Office of the Permanent Secretary, which was a civil service department of the Scottish Government (at the time styled as the Scottish Executive). The departments that made up the Scottish Executive were abolished in May 2007. Functions are now delivered by more than 30 separate directorates.
The permanent secretary supports the Scottish Government in developing, implementing and communicating its policy agenda. The permanent secretary is the chief official policy adviser to the First Minister of Scotland and acts as secretary during cabinet meetings.
The office holder is additionally responsible for ensuring that the government's money and resources are used effectively and properly. The role is currently occupied by Joe Griffin (civil servant), who was appointed in April 2025 by First Minister John Swinney, with the agreement of the Cabinet Secretary, Sir Chris Wormald.
The Permanent Secretary to the Scottish Government is directly responsible for 7,000 civil servants in Scotland. The Permanent Secretary leads the Scottish Government civil service department, ensuring the department delivers the full range of devolved powers and duties that the Scottish Parliament has sole responsibility for as outlined in the Scotland Acts of 1998, 2012 and 2016. The office holder is the principal accountable officer for the Scottish Government, and as such they are primarily responsible to the Scottish Parliament for the exercise of the responsibilities held whilst in office. Such responsibilities includes the management of the Scottish Government's budget and the economic, efficient and effective use of Scottish Government resources.
As well as heading a civil service department of 7,000 civil servants, the Permanent Secretary to the Scottish Government supports the development, implementation and communication of all government policies. The Permanent Secretary must be committed to the delivery of the National Performance Framework, which is the countries "outcome-based approach to the implementation of policies aimed at improving the wellbeing and life chances of its citizens, supported by a successful, inclusive economy and a sustainable and healthy environment".
The Permanent Secretary to the Scottish Government liaises with colleagues across the United Kingdom, including the Welsh Government, Northern Ireland Executive and HM Government, in order to support, engage and invest in the talent and leadership of the UK Civil Service as well as wider public services.
Muir Russell (May 1998–July 2003)
John Elvidge (July 2003–June 2010)
Peter Housden (June 2010–June 2015)
Leslie Evans (June 2015–December 2021)
John-Paul Marks (January 2022–March 2025)
Joe Griffin (April 2025–present)
Scottish Government
Directorates of the Scottish Government
Permanent Secretary of the Welsh Government
Head of the Northern Ireland Civil Service
Cabinet Secretary (United Kingdom)
Scottish Government official site of the Scottish Government
Harry J. Psomiades (1928–2011) was an American political scientist, professor and academic administrator at Queens College and the Graduate School of the University of New York. He taught there from 1965 to 2004. He was also the founder and director of the Center for Byzantine and Modern Greek Studies of Queens College from 1974 to 2004. He was the co-founder and co-editor of the Journal of Modern Hellenism. He was associate Dean of the Graduate School of International Affairs at Columbia University from 1959 to 1965.
The Dr. Harry J. Psomiades Library at The Asia Minor and Pontos Hellenic Research Center is named for him.
The Queens College Greek Center for Byzantine and Modern Greek Studies library collection is named after Dr. Harry J. Psomiades.
Psomiades was born in Boston on September 8, 1928 to Pontic Greek parents who immigrated to the United States in the early nineteen hundreds. He was educated at the Boston Latin School and Boston University. He continued his studies at Columbia University where he earned his PhD in Public Law and Government.
For his work on the promotion of Greek Letters, Psomiades was awarded an honorary Doctor of Letters Degree by Hellenic College/Holy Cross Orthodox Seminary in 1985.
He was a graduate of the U.S. Army War College, and a retired U.S. Army Reserve Colonel. He was decorated with the Legion of Merit and the Army Meritorious Service Medal
Psomiades died on August 13, 2011, at the age of 82.
His authorship and research covered many areas which included Greek politics, the Cyprus issue, Greek -Turkish relations, the Ecumenical Patriarchate, and the Greek American community.
The Eastern Question: The Last Phase. New York: Pella Publishing Co. 2000.
Fridtjof Nansen and the Greek Refugee Crisis, 1922-1924, A Study in Greek -Turkish Diplomacy. New York: Pella Publishing Co. 2011.
The Ecumenical Patriarchate in Captivity: Problems and Prospects. Nights of St. Andrew. 1978.
The Phantom Republic of Pontus and the Megali Catastrophe. Melbourne, Australia: Hellenic Studies Forum. 1992.
Political Elites and the process of Modernization. Stanford CN: Stanford University Press. 1969.
Landscape by Sesshū is one of the most securely authenticated works of the Japanese Muromachi period artist Sesshū (1420–1506). It is an ink wash landscape (山水図) in the private collection of the Ōhara family in Kurashiki, Okayama Prefecture, Japan. The hanging scroll has been designated a National Treasure.
Executed in the shin (真) or carefully delineated (as opposed to sō (草) or hatsuboku 'splashed ink') style, the landscape is thought to be one of the artist's final works. The vertical accent of two pine trees takes the place of a central mountain peak, while the distant shore has a "modern" horizon line unusual for the period. The zigzag path leading to a pavilion on a lookout point contributes to the painting's considerable "spatial depth". Journeying along the path are an old wanderer accompanied by a young attendant, recurrent figures in Sesshū's landscapes. The contrast between the dilute ink of the sea and sky and the more concentrated rocks and vegetation, and the expressive use of the background tone of the paper, helps give the painting its "impression of extreme intensity". Touches of colour include green wash over the pine needles and of orange in the buildings; ink added to the pale yellow wash on the path almost gives the effect of shadows cast by the rocks.
To the left are Sesshū's signature and seal, while above are two poetic inscriptions or gasan (画賛), by friends of the painter. The one on the right is by Bokushō Shūshō (牧松周省), a Zen priest with connections, like Sesshū, with the Ōuchi clan. That on the left by Ryōan Keigo is dated 1507, the year after the painter's death.
嶮崖径折繞羊腸 Mountain precipice, the winding path twists along,白髪蒼頭歩似徉 a grey-haired man, his servant wandering on foot,旧日韋村枯竹短 from distant times tanned-leather village, withered bamboo stumps,前朝簫寺老松長 close at hand flute temple, towering old pines,東漂西泊舟千里 to the east afloat, west at anchor, boats to journey a thousand li,北郭南涯夢一場 northern districts, southern shores united in a dream.我亦相従欲帰去 I too would follow on this journey,青山聳処是家郷 where blue mountains rise up, my family village. 牧松周省書 by Bokushō Shūshō
詩画尋常欲遣情 Poetry and painting inspire pleasant feelings,人間何地卜長生 but where do men live for long?層巒畳嶂剣鋩矗 In the mountain range peaks jut out like daggers,極浦廻塘屏障横 far away a curving bay separated off,径路岩隈蟠繚繞 a narrow path winds between rocks,楼台樹蔭聳崢嶸 towers and trees soar up high.牧松遣韻雪舟逝 Bokushō has left his poem, Sesshū too has passed away,天末残涯春夢驚 their loss disturbs the landscape and my dreams. 永正丁印上巳前一日 Eishō 4, third month, second day 大明皇華前南褝 了庵八十三載書于雲谷寓舎 by Ryōan, imperial envoy to the Ming, formerly of Nanzen-ji, aged 83, at the Unkoku-an
The landscape was known in the seventeenth century, when it was copied by Kanō Tan'yū. Subsequently disappearing from the record, it turned up in a "curio dealer's shop" in Kyoto in 1906. Sold for ten thousand yen, it was later acquired by Magosaburō Ōhara for the sum of 160,000 yen. It remains today in the private collection of the Ōhara Family.
List of National Treasures of Japan (paintings)
Ohara Museum of Art
Public holidays in Bhutan consist of both national holidays and local festivals or tshechus. While national holidays are observed throughout Bhutan, tsechus are only observed in their areas. Bhutan uses its own calendar, a variant of the lunisolar Tibetan calendar. Because it is a lunisolar calendar, dates of some national holidays and most tshechus change from year to year. For example, the new year, Losar, generally falls between February and March.
Bhutan has sixteen public holidays. Bhutanese holidays are rooted in the Drukpa Lineage of Kagyu Buddhism, the House of Wangchuck and the Tibetan calendar. Even secular holidays, however, have a measure of religious overtone, as religious choreography and blessings mark these auspicious days.
Winter solstice celebration in Bhutan known as Nyilo (Dzongkha: ཉི་ལོག, Wylie: nyi log "return of the sun"), is a public holiday. Nyinlog is considered the most auspicious day of the year. It is celebrated like new year among some western Bhutan, though more so in the central and eastern regions, where the shortest day of the year is marked with archery and feasting.
The Traditional Day of Offering (Dzongkha: buelwa phuewi nyim) is a holiday usually falling in January or February, on the 1st day of the 12th month of the calendar. The main purpose behind this holiday is to give thanks to Zhabdrung Ngawang Namgyal, the founder of Bhutan. It also focuses on charity, particularly feeding others, and recreation. The day is celebrated with feasting and traditional sports, including archery, digor, and khuru (darts). This holiday may have originally begun as a Bhutanese new year celebration.
Dawa Dangpa Losar (Dzongkha ལོ་གསར་, Wylie: lo gsar), or simply Dangpa losar, the Bhutanese New Year is celebrated on the 1st day of the 1st month of the Bhutanese lunar calendar, which usually falls between February and March. Festivities last 15 days, ahead of which people spend much time preparing food and alcohol and cleaning their homes of old and unused objects. The common Losar greeting is "Losar Tashi Delek."
February 21–23 are holidays commemorating the birth anniversary of Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck the 5th and current Druk Gyalpo.
Zhabdrung Kurchoe marks the passing of Zhabdrung Ngawang Namgyal in 1651 at Punakha Dzong. It is observed on the 10th day of the 3rd month of the Bhutanese calendar. The holiday is a national day of mourning.
May 2 is the birth anniversary of Jigme Dorji Wangchuck the 3rd Druk Gyalpo, who began Bhutan's first steps toward modernization (b. 1928, Thruepang Palace, Trongsa).
The day is also celebrated as Teacher's day throughout the country. The day sees students coordinating various programs at schools and institution showing gratitude to their teachers. Students gift cards to Teachers, while some students substitute their teachers in class to give them a time-out. The day also constitute cultural programs showcasing various dance and song items focusing on teachers and their contributions. The day usually ends with a common meal for the entire school or institution.
June 2 is the coronation day of the Jigme Singye Wangchuck, the 4th Druk Gyalpo (1974). It also doubles as Social Forestry Day, where children plant trees.
Lord Buddha's Parinirvana Day or Duechen Nga Zom is observed on the 15th day of the 4th month of Bhutanese calendar. On this day, Lord Buddha was conceived, born, subdued evil, gained enlightenment and attained Nirvana. The day is considered as one of the most auspicious days for Buddhists and is a public holiday in Bhutan.
The Birth Anniversary of Guru Rinpoche is observed on the 10th day of the 5th month of the Bhutanese calendar in Bhutan.
The First Sermon of Lord Buddha is observed on the 4th day of the 6th month of the Bhutanese calendar. It is also known as Drugpa Tshezhi, and is one of the holiest days in the Buddhist calendar. On this day, Lord Buddha delivered his first sermon or turned the first wheel of dharma at Sarnath. Therefore, the day is also called Chokhor Duechen.
Blessed Rainy Day (Dzongkha: thruebab) generally falls in September 23. and is held on an auspicious day during monsoon season. The traditional holiday has not always been a public holiday, but was rather recently reinstated to official status. The event is marked by feasting, drinking alcohol, playing traditional sports, and purification through washing. In some parts of Pemagatshel, the traditional celebrations are more intense than those of even Losar.
Dashain, the main Nepalese (and Hindu festival, falls on October 6. During this holiday, houses are cleaned and replastered, gifts are exchanged, and families gather. Dashain has been a public holiday in Bhutan.
November 1 marks the coronation day of Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck, the 5th and current Druk Gyalpo (2008).
November 11 marks the birth anniversary of Jigme Singye Wangchuck, the 4th Druk Gyalpo (b. 1955, Dechencholing Palace, Thimphu). The holiday is also called Constitution Day; under this king and at his behest, the Constitution of Bhutan was enacted.
Lhabab Duchen or Descending Day of Lord Buddha is a public holiday observed on 22nd day of the 9th month of the Bhutanese lunar calendar. Lhabab Duchen marks Gautama Buddha's return to Earth after attaining Nirvana. In the eastern regions of Bhutan, the holiday is a popular occasion for performing Lhasoel, which are religious offerings in the form of ara (traditional wine), blessings, and supplications.
The National Day (Gyalyong Duechen) of Bhutan is December 17. The date marks the coronation of Ugyen Wangchuck as the first Druk Gyalpo of modern Bhutan. Celebrations are held at Changlimithang Stadium, and include a public address by the Druk Gyalpo and a procession including a statue of Ugyen Wangchuck to honor the first Druk Gyalpo and the independent Bhutanese nation.
These are other major festive celebrations in Bhutan that are not part of the national public holidays.
Lomba Festival is a New Year of two western districts of Paro and Haa. The festival falls on the 29th day of the 9th lunar month in the Bhutanese calendar. Hoentay is an important part of the Lomba for the people of Haa while for the people for Paro is called Jomju.
Ngenpa Gudzom is one of the major festive events in the Bhutanese calendar usually observed on the 7th day of the 11th Bhutanese month annually. The day is considered the most inauspicious day on the Bhutanese calendar. It is widely celebrated by the people of central and eastern regions of Bhutan. Nyenpa Guzom or The Meeting of Nine Evils is not a public holiday in Bhutan. The day was removed from the national holiday list in 2007.
Numerous tsechus, or festivals, take place for up to five days each at different locales across Bhutan. These usually feature large-scale pageantry and costumes, allegorical dances, archery, and music. These festivals are centuries-old traditions functioning not only as links to the past but also attract large numbers of tourists.
Below is a list of major tsechus in Bhutan, along with their 2011 dates. Dates in other years will vary.
Culture of Bhutan
National Day of Bhutan
The Battle of Belyov (Russian: Битва под Белёвом) was fought in 1437 near Belyov (Belev) between the troops of the Grand Duchy of Moscow under the command of Dmitry Shemyaka and Tatars led by Ulugh Muhammad. The consensus is that the battle was a Tatar victory.
By 1437 Khan Ulugh Muhammad lost the struggle for power in the Golden Horde. He was forced to flee and appeared with the small army near the town Belyov, which is in the upper reaches of the Oka River. Initially Grand Duke of Moscow Vasily II, who was indebted to Ulugh Muhammad for the throne of the Grand Duchy, received fugitive Khan rather well and allowed him to nomadize in the vicinity of Belyov. There is evidence that Vasily II and Ulugh Muhammad concluded some kind of treaty, vowing not to commit hostile actions against each other. However, after the position of Ulugh Muhammad strengthened, he began plundering raids: "he ravaged foreign lands, like an eagle, flying far from his nest in search of food". This caused concern among people in the inner circles of Moscow Principality and they put pressure on Vasily II, so he decided to expel Ulugh Muhammad from Belyov. It is interesting to note that at that time the Grand Duke of Lithuania was formally suzerain of Belyov, like other Upper Oka Principalities, but they also retained their ties with Moscow.
Vasily II sent to Belyov an army under the command of his cousins Dmitry Shemyaka and Dmitry Krasny (they were also his rivals in the struggle for the throne of the Grand Duchy), and "many other princes". Russian sources estimate the army sent to Belyov as very numerous. On the way the army robbed local people (according to the Grand Duke's chronicle), not only in order to feed themselves, but also sent the loot home.
Going to spend the winter near Belyov, Ulugh Muhammad built near the town a kind of fortification ("ostrog") – wicker walls were covered with snow and watered. After the water froze, a strong "ice fortress" was formed. The fortification was well located: from the West and South the approaches were protected by a deep ravine, along which the Belyovka River flowed, and from the East there was the steep bank of the Oka River. The gentle approach was only from the North, and at the narrowest point the passage was no more than 100 m (300 ft) wide.
On 4 December Russian forces attacked the Tatars and drove them into the ice fortress, but were defeated trying to take it at once. Princes Pyotr Kuzminsky and Semyon Volynets, who broke into the fortification on the heels of the retreating Tatars, were killed. According to the Russian chronicle, the losses of the Tatars were also heavy, some unnamed Ulug Mohammed's son-in-law was even killed there.
Instead of preparing for a coordinated assault, the Russian commanders entered into negotiations and lost their vigilance. In some chronicles, the main blame is assigned to Grigory Protasyev, voivode of Mtsensk, who allegedly sided with Ulug Mohammed and "made a treason". Protasyev reported that the Grand Duke wished to conclude peace and did not order "to fight with the Tsar". During the negotiations on the morning of 5 December, Ulu-Mohammed refused to pay him any tribute and promised not to attack the Russian principalities, and offered his son as a hostage. In return, Ulu-Mohammad asked only to be allowed to remain near Belyov until spring. However, voivodes Vasily Sobakin and Andrei Goltyaev, who conducted the negotiations, rejected this proposal. Then Ulug Mohammed, who found himself in a desperate situation, personally led the attack on the Russian army. Taking advantage of the "great mist" the Tatars made the turning movement and attacked from the rear of the unprepared Russian troops. There was panic and total flight, and thus Ulug Mohammed won a complete victory. Gumilev (2024), however, interpreted it as a Tatar defeat.
After the defeat at Belyov, Vasily II together with Dmitry Shemyaka and Dmitry Krasny signed a treaty with Boris Aleksandrovich, Grand Prince of Tver, envisaging, in particular, mutual aid in case of invasion of "Tsar" (Khan) or other Tatars. In return, Vasily and his cousins promised not to accept the city Tver and Kashin from the Tatars.
Ulug Mohammed after the victory at Belyov captured the desolate city of Kazan, strengthened there and founded the Khanate of Kazan, and soon began raids on Russia.
Zimin, Aleksandr (1991). Витязь на распутье. Феодальная война в России XV в. [The Knight at the Crossroads. The feudal war in Russia of the 15th century]. Moscow: Мысль. ISBN 5-244-00518-9.
Bespalov, R. A. (2005). Белёвское побоище 1437 г. в истории Северо-Восточной Руси первой половины XV в.. Белёвские чтения (in Russian). 5: 31–55.
Bakhtin, A. (2008). Образование Казанского и Касимовского ханств [Formation of the Kazan and Kasimov Khaganates] (in Russian). Yoshkar-Ola. ISBN 978-5-94808-423-7.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
Seliverstov, D. (2012). Золотоордынская цивилизация [Golden Horde civilization] (in Russian). Kazan. ISBN 978-5-905576-26-3.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
Iskhakov, D. (2005). Татары: популярная этнография (этническая история татарского народа) [Tatars: popular ethnography (ethnic history of the Tatar people)] (in Russian). Kazan. ISBN 5-298-04130-2.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
Rakhimzyanov, B. (2012). Прибытие первых Джучидов в Московское Великое княжество: начало трансформации империи [Arrival of the first Jochids in the Grand Duchy of Moscow: the beginning of the transformation of the empire] (in Russian).
Safargaliev, Magomet (1960). Распад золотой орды [The collapse of the Golden Horde] (in Russian). Мордовский государственный университет.
Dimitriev, V. (2003). Чебоксары: очерки истории города конца XIII—XVII вв [Cheboksary: essays on the history of the city from the end of the 13th to the 17th centuries] (in Russian). Cheboksary. ISBN 5-87677-008-6.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
Gumilev, Lev (2024). от Руси к России [from Rus to Russia] (in Russian). Moscow. ISBN 978-5-17-153493-6.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
Holy Trinity Church, Kirk Ireton, is a Grade I listed parish church in the Church of England in Kirk Ireton, Derbyshire.
The church dates from the 12th century. It comprises a west tower, nave, aisles and clerestory, a south porch and chancel with one bay, chapels and a vestry.
It was restored in 1873 by Evans and Jolley from Nottingham, with the masonry work being carried out by William and Benjamin Doxey.
The church is in a joint parish with
All Saints' Church, Alderwasley
St James the Apostle's Church, Bonsall
All Saints' Church, Bradbourne
All Saints’ Church, Ballidon
St James’ Church, Brassington
St Margaret's Church, Carsington
All Saints’ Church, Elton
St James’ Church, Idridgehay
Holy Trinity Church, Middleton-by-Wirksworth
St Mary's Church, Wirksworth
The pipe organ was built by Henry Willis in 1859. A specification of the organ can be found on the National Pipe Organ Register.
Grade I listed churches in Derbyshire
Grade I listed buildings in Derbyshire
Listed buildings in Kirk Ireton
Kyle Flanagan (born 15 September 1998) is an Australian professional rugby league footballer who plays as a halfback and five-eighth for the St. George Illawarra Dragons in the National Rugby League.
He previously played for the Cronulla-Sutherland Sharks, Sydney Roosters and the Canterbury-Bankstown Bulldogs in the NRL.
Kyle Flanagan was born in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia on 15 September 1998. He is the son of St George Coach Shane Flanagan.
In Round 24 of the 2018 NRL season, Flanagan made his NRL debut under the coaching of his father in the Sharks' 38–12 win over the Newcastle Knights. On 23 September 2018, Flanagan played for Newtown in the Intrust Super Premiership NSW grand final defeat against Canterbury.
In Round 13 of the 2019 NRL season, Flanagan scored 18 individual points which included a try and seven goals as Cronulla defeated Parramatta 42-22 at Shark Park.
On 22 July 2019, Flanagan signed a two-year deal to join the Sydney Roosters starting in the 2020 NRL season.
In round 16 of the 2020 NRL season, he kicked nine goals in a 58-12 victory over Brisbane at the Sydney Cricket Ground.
Flanagan finished his first season with the Roosters with 4 tries and 91 goals.
Flanagan played a total of 20 games for the Sydney Roosters in the 2020 NRL season as the club finished fourth on the table. Flanagan played in both finals games as the club were eliminated in straight sets from the finals series losing to Penrith and Canberra. In the wake of their exit from the finals, the club informed Flanagan that he would not be required for the 2021 season.
On 26 October 2020, he signed a three-year deal with the Canterbury-Bankstown Bulldogs.
In round 1 of the 2021 NRL season, he made his debut for Canterbury-Bankstown against Newcastle which Canterbury lost 32-16.
In round 9 of the 2021 NRL season, Flanagan was substituted off the field by Canterbury head coach Trent Barrett after a poor first half performance in the club's 32-12 loss against St. George. Flanagan was then dropped from the first grade team until the round 16 game against Manly Warringah Sea Eagles, when he was reselected after four Canterbury players were side-lined by NSW Health after breaching NRL restrictions related to COVID-19.
Flanagan made a total of 13 appearances for Canterbury in the 2021 NRL season as the club finished last and claimed the Wooden Spoon.
Flanagan made a total of 20 appearances for Canterbury in the 2022 NRL season as the club finished 12th on the table and missed the finals.
In round 1 of the 2023 NRL season, Flanagan was sent to the sin bin during Canterbury's 31-6 loss against Manly at Brookvale Oval.
Flanagan played a total of 17 games for Canterbury in the 2023 NRL season as Canterbury finished 15th on the table. On 7 September, Flanagan signed a two-year deal to join St. George Illawarra starting in 2024.
In round 1 of the 2024 NRL season, Flanagan made his club debut for St. George Illawarra as they upset the Gold Coast 28-4.
During the club's round 23 loss against Canterbury, Flanagan was placed on report for allegedly biting Stephen Crichton. On 13 August, Flanagan was suspended for four games after being found guilty of biting an opponent.
Flanagan played 20 games for St. George Illawarra in the 2024 NRL season as the club finished 11th on the table. On 19 December, St. George Illawarra announced that Flanagan had re-signed with the club until the end of the 2027 season.
In round 2 of the 2025 NRL season, Flanagan scored two tries for St. George Illawarra in their 25-24 loss against South Sydney.
Flanagan played every game for St. George Illawarra in the 2025 NRL season despite supporters demanding that he should be demoted to the NSW Cup in place of Lachlan Ilias. St. George Illawarra would finish the season in 15th place recording only eight wins.
On 12 October 2025 he made his debut in the Prime Minister's XIII 28-10 win over PNG Prime Minister's XIII in Port Moresby
Cronulla Sharks profile
Lobophytum irregulare is a species of soft coral in the family Alcyoniidae.
Villa de Aragón is a station on Line B of the Mexico City Metro system. It is located in the Gustavo A. Madero municipality, in the limits with the State of Mexico. In 2019, the station had an average ridership of 14,456 passengers per day.
The station was opened on 15 December 1999 and was the temporary northern terminus of the line, until its expansion towards Ciudad Azteca in November 2000.
Villa de Aragón serves the Villa de Aragón and San Juan de Aragón neighborhoods in the Gustavo A. Madero municipality in the north of Mexico City.
The station is located in the Villa de Aragón neighborhood, hence the name. Villa de Aragón's pictogram depicts a collection of houses.
Media related to Estación Villa de Aragón (Metro de México) at Wikimedia Commons
Chrysanthos Kyriazis (born (1972-04-21)21 April 1972) is a retired Greek volleyball player. He was part of the Greece men's national volleyball team at the 2002 FIVB Volleyball Men's World Championship in Argentina. At club level, he played for Olympiacos.
profile, club career, info at greekvolley.gr (in Greek)
profile Archived 2016-03-18 at the Wayback Machine at fivb.org
Dwight Bennett Newton (January 14, 1916 – June 30, 2013) was an American writer of westerns. He also wrote under the names Dwight Bennett, Clement Hardin, Ford Logan, Hank Mitchum and Dan Temple. Newton was one of the six founder members of the Western Writers of America. He was a writer and story consultant for various television shows including Wagon Train and Tales of Wells Fargo.
Newton was born in Kansas City, Missouri, and began to write short stories for Western magazines while studying history at the University of Missouri at Kansas City. After graduating with a master's degree in 1942, he served in the Army Corps of Engineers until 1946, being based at Camp Abbot, a training center near Bend, Oregon, in 1943. After the war he settled in Bend, and became a professional writer, publishing 74 novels under various names, including one, Range Boss (Pocket Books, 1949), that was the first work of fiction issued in paperback, without having first appeared in hardcovers.
In 1952 Newton was one of the six founder members of Western Writers of America, Inc., serving as its first secretary-treasurer, and as a board member for ten years.
In the late 1950s, Newton moved to Hollywood to work as a writer and story consultant for several television shows, before returning to Bend in 1965.
During the 1970s, he gave classes in fiction writing at Central Oregon Community College, and at the Haystack summer school at Cannon Beach.
Newton married Mary Jane Kregel of Nebraska City, Nebraska, on January 29, 1941. They had two daughters.
He died at his home in Bend, aged 97, and is buried at Tumalo Cemetery, Deschutes County, Oregon.
As "D. B. Newton"
"Swing High, Nester!", Lariat Story (March 1949)
"White Thunder of the Cherokees", Frontier Stories, (Summer 1949)
"Three Guns and a Girl", Best Western (September 1951)
"Rogue's Rendezvous", Rio Kid Western (January 1952)
"Stage Coach West", Frontier Stories (Spring 1952)
"The Slack Rein", Western Short Stories (June 1952)
"The Kid Who Wouldn't Talk", Best Western, (July 1952)
"The Kid That Satan Sent", Western Novels and Short Stories (April 1953)
"Mule Tracks", Bad Men and Good (WWA anthology), Dodd, Mead, (1953)
"Chain of Command", With Guidons Flying (WWA anthology), edited by Charles N. Heckelmann. Doubleday & Co., (1970)
"The Storm Riders", Zane Grey Western (October 1970)
As "Dwight Bennett"
"Trail's End at the Hangtree", Five Western Novels (October 1951)
As "Jackson Cole"
"The Barbed Barrier", Texas Rangers (July 1953)
"Kid on a Calico Horse". Teleplay by Dwight Newton and Thomas Thompson. Story by E. Jack Neuman (April 28, 1958)
"Under False Pretenses". Teleplay by Dwight Newton. Story by Elmer Kelton (October 3, 1959)
"Daughter of the Sioux". Teleplay by Dwight Newton (January 6, 1960)
"Mesa of Missing Men". Teleplay by Dwight Newton (June 19, 1959)
"Barbed Wire". Teleplay by Frank Bonham and Dwight Newton (July 17, 1959)
"Major Trouble". Teleplay by Bob Mitchell and Dwight Newton. Story by Ralph Conger (July 30, 1959)
"Bob Ford". Teleplay by Tod Ballard and Dwight Newton (August 24, 1959)
Tales of Wells Fargo
"The Hasty Gun". Teleplay by Dwight Newton (January 28, 1957)
"Shotgun Messenger". Teleplay by Dwight Newton and Sloan Nibley (February 26, 1957)
"Jesse James". Teleplay by Dwight Newton (March 5, 1957)
"Ride With a Killer". Teleplay by Verne Athanas and Dwight Newton (March 19, 1957)
"Fort Massacre". Teleplay by Dwight Newton and David Chandler. Story by David Chandler (April 8, 1957)
"Luke Frazer". Teleplay by Dwight Newton. Story by T. T. Flynn (July 9, 1958)
"The Branding Iron". Teleplay by A. I. Bezzerides and Dwight Newton (August 6, 1958)
"Wild Cargo". Teleplay by Dwight Newton. Story by Steve Fisher (August 14, 1958)
"The House I Enter". Teleplay by Dwight Newton. Story by William F. Leicester (October 31, 1958)
"The Last Stand". Teleplay by Dwight Newton. Story by John Cunningham (November 21, 1958)
"Tall Texan". Teleplay by D. D. Beauchamp, Mary Beauchamp and Dwight Newton (January 13, 1959)
"Kid Curry". Teleplay by D. D. Beauchamp and Dwight Newton. Story by D. D. Beauchamp (March 6, 1959)
"The Daltons". Teleplay by Dwight Newton (April 9, 1959)
"The Dynamite Kid". Teleplay by Dwight Newton (September 1, 1959)
"Frightened Witness". Teleplay by Dwight Newton and Barney Slater. Story by Dwight Newton (October 27, 1960)
"The Jesse Cowan Story". Story and teleplay by Dwight Newton (October 28, 1957)
"The Bill Tawnee Story". Teleplay by Rik Vollaerts and Dwight Newton. Story by Rik Vollaerts (February 12, 1958)
"Convict Town". By Dwight Newton (September 17, 1960)
Nineteen linear feet of the author's papers are held at the University of Oregon Libraries, Special Collections and University Archives.
Dwight Newton at IMDb
Dashner, Garry. "Dwight B. Newton: Collection of articles and yearbooks, a biography and bibliography".
Rodolfo Guarnieri (29 October 1927 – 22 September 2019) was an Argentine sports shooter. He competed in the trap event at the 1968 Summer Olympics.
Rodolfo Guarnieri at Olympedia
Rodolfo Guarnieri at InterSportStats
ISAV may refer to:
Institut Supérieur Agro-Vétérinaire, now the Faculty of Agronomic and Veterinary Science at Loyola University of Congo
Isau (disambiguation)
Esau, the Biblical figure
Dampong is a town in the Asante Akim South, a district in the Ashanti Region of Ghana.
There is a Secondary school at Dampong called Jubilee Mission Senior High School which was opened in September 2007 by Ashanti Akim Community Organisation AACO.
There is DAMPONG DIASPORA ASSOCIATION(DDA) Dampong citizens in the Diaspora whose aim is to help in the development of the town. The association was founded by Mr Appiah Ofosu-hene a citizen of Dampong based in the UK. The association is involved in the development of the town and has established a development committee with an office in the town. This group has been involved in various programs and as of March 2023 helping in fixing an abandoned public place of convenience and other things. Under the able leadership of the current executives being led by the Chairman Rev. Yaw Adu-Dwumaa who is based in the UK.
Kaloleni is a town in Kilifi County of Kenya.
It is located 44 km from the county capital of Kilifi Town and about 50 kilometres (31 mi) by road north of Mombasa city center.
Kaloleni serves as an administrative town, tourist town and several secondary schools and colleges are also situated in Kaloleni.
Kaloleni is in one of Kenya's poorest and least developed region. Over half of the students at Kaloleni Primary School are orphans, in many cases because their parents died of AIDS.
The town lacks safe water supplies. In 2010 World Vision International provided assistance in water purification, which should reduce the incidence of diseases related to water contamination.
In 2009 the district experienced drought, relieved by rains in November.
After the rains, the average distance required to reach water fell to 1.2 kilometres (0.75 mi) compared to 5 kilometres (3.1 mi) the previous month.
The number of children under five years old at risk of malnutrition rose from 5% in October to 8.30% in November, but this was expect to improve more food and milk became available.
In July 2011 the Kaloleni area was again experiencing a severe food shortage.
The main diet was maize flour, supplemented by mangoes found growing wild.
As of 2010 St. Luke’s MISSION hospital in Kaloleni had been operational for about two years, providing basic care for a population of 400,000 in the region. Malnutrition is a major cause of infant death, often through ignorance of young mothers.
The hospital helps educate the mothers.
The hospital provides out-patient and inpatient care, with 72 beds and 7 cots.
Services include antenatal and obstetric care, antiretroviral therapy, HIV counselling and testing, family planning, immunization and treatment of childhood diseases, and tuberculosis diagnosis and treatment.
Kaloleni Junior academy in Kaloleni is a private primary school, with both day and boarding pupils.
Subjects include Mathematics, English, Kiswahili, Science, Christian Religious Education, Geography, History & Civics, Creative Arts, HIV/AIDS, Life Skills and Business Education.
St.Johns Girls secondary school is in Kaloleni. In 2009, construction of a new dormitory was completed with the support of the Parents Teachers Association.
As of July 2009, a dispensary was under construction.
In April 2009 a three-story constituency office was under construction in the town.
Private pre unit /primary school - THE BRIDGE INTERNATIONAL SCHOOL - is also found in Kaloleni its a day school in the centre of the town.
In March 2011 the U.S. Ambassador to Kenya announced support for a project to help conserve the Kaya Forest in Kaloleni District. UNESCO declared the forest a World Heritage Site in 2010.
The USD 10,000 program will build and rehabilitate a water dam, finish reforestation, fence the forest area and set up three entrance and exit gates. The Kaya Elders were to be responsible for the program to conserve rare species of plants and animals.
The Patterson Law Office is located in Central City, Nebraska. It is a false-front building of frame construction built in 1872. It is listed in the National Register of Historic Places; its historical significance derives from its age, its architectural design, and its association with John Patterson and with author-photographer Wright Morris.
The Patterson Law Office was built in the same year as John Patterson, a native of Ireland, came to Lone Tree (now Central City), Nebraska. Patterson built a law practice in Merrick County housed in this building. He was a well-known trial lawyer and county attorney, played an important role in the development of Central City and Merrick County, and served as county superintendent of schools.
The law office is a one-story, false-fronted building with gable roof. It rests on a stone foundation and exhibits Greek Revival elements in the door, window, pilaster and cornice detailing. It has two rooms lined with wainscot paneling.
The building is historically significant for several reasons. It is one of the earliest known false-frame commercial buildings in Nebraska predating the majority of 19th century commercial buildings in Nebraska by nearly 20 years. It is associated with a significant figure, John Patterson, in the development of Central City and Merrick County. It also has relationships to Wright Morris appearing in his literary works.
Cahow Barber Shop
Wright Morris Boyhood House
Tree Literary Society
Hurricane Debby was the first hurricane to strike the Mexican state of Veracruz since Hurricane Anna in 1956. The eighth tropical cyclone, fourth named storm, and the first hurricane of the 1988 Atlantic hurricane season, Debby developed from a tropical wave off the west coast of the Yucatan Peninsula on August 31. The system slowly intensified as it tracked west-northwestward toward Mexico, eventually reaching tropical storm status on September 2. Thereafter, Debby began to rapidly strengthen, and the storm was upgraded to a hurricane later that day. After attaining peak winds of 75 mph (120 km/h), Debby made landfall near Tuxpan, Veracruz early on September 3. The hurricane quickly weakened inland, but managed to reach the eastern Pacific on September 5. Debby became Tropical Depression Seventeen-E, which moved northwest but remained poorly organized due to wind shear and dissipated on September 8.
Heavy rainfall caused flooding in the state of Veracruz. Thousands of people were forced from their homes as rivers rose, including upwards of 30,000 fleeing for shelter after the Tuxpan River exceeded its bank. About 8,000 residents of the city of Álamo were rendered homeless. Flooding in Poza Rica forced the rescue of dozens of people from their cars and homes. Several homes in the city were swept away, while debris such as tree branches and trash blocked water runoff. Water, mudslides, and rocks blocked numerous roads in the area. In combination with Hurricane Kristy in the Pacific Ocean, approximately 50,000 people were left homeless in Mexico. At least 20 fatalities were attributed to Debby.
A relatively strong tropical wave emerged into the Atlantic Ocean from the northwest coast of Africa on August 15. Moving westward, the wave split while well east of the Lesser Antilles, with a portion developing into Tropical Depression Seven on August 21, which eventually strengthened into Tropical Storm Chris. The remaining portion of the wave continued westward and reached the Caribbean Sea as a disorganized center of showers. During the night of August 29, some cloud banding developed, followed by the formation of a low-level center over the Yucatán Peninsula on August 30. Shortly after entering the Bay of Campeche on August 31, the system was given a T1.5 rating on the Dvorak scale, based on appearance on satellite imagery. As a result, the wave developed into Tropical Depression Eight at 18:00 UTC on August 31. Cloud banding and outflow patterns became further organized on September 1. The depression moved generally west-northwestward, steered by a high pressure area situated over the Eastern United States.
On September 2, the depression organized significantly. Based on a reconnaissance aircraft flight and satellite imagery, it is estimated that the cyclone intensified into Tropical Storm Debby around 06:00 UTC. Later that day, another reconnaissance flight observed sustained winds of 90 mph (140 km/h) at 1,500 ft (460 m) and 80 mph (130 km/h) at the surface of the storm. At 18:00 UTC on September 2, Debby became a Category 1 hurricane while centered only about 35 mi (56 km) offshore Mexico. Six hours later, Debby made landfall about 23 mi (37 km) south of Tuxpan, Veracruz, with winds of 75 mph (120 km/h) – the highest sustained wind speed associated with the storm. Debby was the first hurricane to strike the state of Veracruz since Hurricane Anna in 1956. Additionally, Debby simultaneously attained its minimum barometric pressure of 991 mbar (29.3 inHg). The hurricane rapidly weakened over the Sierra Madre Oriental mountains of Mexico, weakening to a tropical storm by 06:00 UTC on September 3 and falling to tropical depression intensity about 12 hours later. However, the circulation managed to remain intact and reached the Pacific Ocean between Manzanillo and Puerto Vallarta on September 5.
Operationally, the National Hurricane Center treated the storm as a new tropical cyclone, rather than a continuation of Debby. As a result, the system became Tropical Depression Seventeen-E, with advisories beginning at 21:00 UTC after the remnants of Debby became organized enough to be classified as such. Little movement occurred, with the depression remaining stationary off the coast of Manazillo. Although the depression was a poorly-organized cyclone, the possibility that it could re-intensify into a tropical storm in the small and narrow Gulf of California existed. However, due to the depression's proximity to land and increasing wind shear, the chances of the system strengthening into a tropical storm again became doubtful. By September 7, the depression was under the influence of a low-level trough and weak steering currents. The depression soon became difficult to track via satellite imagery. Most of the deep convection and outflow diminished by September 8, reducing the system to a low-level swirl. The depression dissipated around 18:00 UTC, while situated in the Gulf of California between La Paz, Baja California Sur, and Culiacán, Sinaloa.
Multiple tropical cyclone warnings and watches were issued in accordance with Hurricane Debby. The first was a tropical storm warning for Santa Cruz to the city of Veracruz at 12:00 UTC on September 2. About four hours later, the portion of the tropical storm warning from Santa Cruz to Punta Jerez. The remaining portion of the tropical storm warnings – from Punta Jerez to Veracruz – was upgraded to a hurricane warning at 18:30 UTC on September 2. The portions of the hurricane warning between Cabo Rojo and Punta Jerez as well as from Poza Rica to Veracruz were downgraded to a tropical storm warning at 22:00 UTC. All watches and warnings were discontinued at 02:30 UTC on September 3. In the city of Tuxpan, the police, Mexican Army, and Red Cross were placed on standby.
Locally heavy flooding was reported in Tuxpan. Streets were inundated and power outages occurred, while more than 500 people lost their homes. The Tuxpan River overflowed its banks at Álamo. A local Red Cross official stated that most of the town was submerged in only a few minutes. About 5,000 homes were flooded by September 3, forcing approximately 30,000 people to flee. Additional flooding in the town resulted in about 8,000 people being left homeless. In Poza Rica, downed tree trunks and trash caused water runoffs to be blocked. Mud and rocks blocked roads and dozens were rescued from house and car flooding. A number of homes built along the gullies were washed away. The Cazones River overflowed, rendering a highway connecting Tampico to Veracruz impassable. The Cotaxtla River exceeded its bank in Cotaxtla, rupturing nine oil and natural gas lines. Pemex works quickly closed the pipelines. In Mexico City, about 600 people fled for shelter as rivers in the area began to swell. Ramón Aguirre Velázquez, the Head of Government of Mexico City, described the rainfall as the heaviest in 20 years.
A total of 20 deaths were attributed to Hurricane Debby, with 10 fatalities in the state of Veracruz alone. Three were caused by a landslide in Papalanta that crushed two homes. Three other storm-related deaths were reported with house-crushing landslides in Poza Rica. Four people died and sixteen were injured in Ixtlahuaco – a town in Hidalgo about 100 mi (160 km) northeast of Mexico City – when a mudslide crushed three homes.
The combined effects of Debby and Hurricane Kristy, which impacted Mexico's Pacific coast around the same time, rendered about 50,000 people homeless. Emergency crews worked to provide shelter for those left homeless. Relief supplies were delivered by boat to towns isolated by floodwaters. Local health officials in Mexico City warned of the possibility of outbreaks of hepatitis, typhoid, and other waterborne diseases. In response to the threat, homes located in the northern portions of the city near the Río de los Remedios were fumigated.
Other storms of the same name
List of Category 1 Atlantic hurricanes
List of Atlantic–Pacific crossover hurricanes
Hurricane Diana (1990) – A Category 2 hurricane that devastated the region just 2 years later
Hurricane Gert (1993) – A very deadly Category 2 hurricane that took a similar track and likewise crossed into the Pacific
Tropical Depression 17-E Storm Wallet
Ari David Shaffir is an American comedian, actor, podcaster, writer, and producer. He produced and hosted the Skeptic Tank podcast from 2010 to 2023. He now hosts the podcast "You Be Trippin'" where he discusses travel experiences and stories. He also co-hosts the podcast Punch Drunk Sports with Jayson Thibault and Sam Tripoli, and is a regular guest on The Joe Rogan Experience podcast on the "Protect Our Parks" episodes with Shane Gillis and Mark Normand. He created and previously hosted and produced the This is Not Happening television series, an adaptation of his monthly stand-up show.
Ari David Shaffir was born in New York City to a Jewish family of Romanian descent. His father was a Holocaust survivor. The family followed Conservative Jewish practices until Ari was nine years old, when they moved to Maryland. There, his parents adopted Orthodox Jewish beliefs. When he was 16, he worked at Arlington National Cemetery.
Shaffir attended high school in Rockville, Maryland. He went on to study for two years at Yeshiva in Jerusalem before transferring to the University of Maryland, where he graduated in 1999 with a degree in English literature. Shaffir played on the university's NCAA golf team in 1995 and claims he was the lowest-ranked NCAA athlete.
Shaffir's first and only comedy performance on stage before he moved to Los Angeles took place in his early twenties at an open mic night at a "sports comedy place in Northern Virginia". Following his graduation from university, Shaffir moved to Los Angeles to improve his chances of success as a stand-up comedian. He took up work answering the phones at The Comedy Store, which led to positions in the cover booth and "the door", until owner Mitzi Shore made him a paid regular four and a half years later. His early influences in comedy include watching showcase comedy shows on television and comedians on The Tonight Show with Johnny Carson. He cites Bill Burr as his favorite living comedian.
Shaffir first became known to a wider audience with the viral video series The Amazing Racist. He became an opening act for Joe Rogan in the late 2000s and began touring with Rogan and fellow comics Joey Diaz, Duncan Trussell, Tom Segura, Brian Redban, and Eddie Bravo. In 2009 he appeared at the Montreal Comedy Festival as part of The Nasty Show. The following year he created, produced and hosted the monthly live show This Is Not Happening, with Eric Abrams, a stand-up comedy featuring numerous comedians telling true-life stories around a theme. The show would become a regular feature at comedy festivals and debuted as a web series in 2013 and premiered in January 2015 on Comedy Central. He left the show as producer and host in 2017 after selling his third special, Double Negative, to Netflix rather than Comedy Central. Roy Wood Jr. replaced him as host.
In 2010 Shaffir appeared on the 3rd episode of the Joe Rogan Experience, his first of 59 appearances on the show. In 2011, Shaffir began his podcast, Skeptic Tank. On most episodes, Shaffir picks a subject his guests (mostly comedians) can discuss as experts. While subjects are often comic he's also discussed serious issues such as mental health, suicide, rape, and prison. Every 50 episodes the comedy team Danish and O'Neill appear as guests. In 2013, Shaffir began to cohost the sports podcast Punch Drunk Sports with fellow comedians Sam Tripoli and Jayson Thibault.
Shaffir spent several years earning a living as a commercial actor, appearing in ads for Coke Zero, Subway, Dominos, and Bud Light. He appeared in the comedy feature film Keeping Up with the Joneses (2016). As of 2017, Shaffir claims to have no interest in pursuing acting which could take him away from his stand-up.
Following the death of basketball player Kobe Bryant, Shaffir caused controversy after he posted a video on his Twitter (now X) page celebrating the event. "Kobe Bryant died 23 years too late today," Shaffir says in the video. "He got away with rape because all the Hollywood liberals who attack comedy enjoy rooting for the Lakers more than they dislike rape. Big ups to the hero who forgot to gas up his chopper. I hate the Lakers. What a great day." A New York comedy club where Shaffir was scheduled to perform canceled his performance after it received phone threats.
The Fax (2004; short film)
Reeling in Reality (2005)
Pauly Shore's Natural Born Komics (2007)
inAPPropriate Comedy (2013)
Keeping Up with the Joneses (2016)
Revenge for the Holocaust (2012)
Passive Aggressive (2013)
Paid Regular (2015)
Double Negative (2017)
America's Sweetheart (2025)
Minding the Store (2005; three episodes)
West Side Stories (2012; television film)
This Is Not Happening (2013–2017)
What's Your F@#Cking Deal?!?! (2016)
Official website
Ari Shaffir at IMDb
Berlinguer ti voglio bene (internationally released as Berlinguer, I Love You) is a 1977 Italian comedy film written and directed by Giuseppe Bertolucci. It is the debut film for both Bertolucci and Roberto Benigni.
It is based on the stage play Cioni Mario di Gaspare fu Giulia, which Bertolucci wrote and directed in 1975 and in which Benigni played the character of Mario Cioni, a character he later resumed in the television mini-series Onda libera. The title quotes Cioni's declaration of love for Enrico Berlinguer, then leader of the Italian Communist Party.
Mario is a man of the underclass of Tuscany, who works as a construction worker and lives in the myth of Enrico Berlinguer. Mario has an Oedipus complex, being very attached to his mother, and his friends make jokes of him. When he loses a game of cards with Bozzone, one of his friend, he doesn't know how to deal with his gambling debt and the friend asks him for payment to have sex with his mother. Mario's mother and Bozzone, after the first experience, will begin to like each other and live like a real family, upsetting Mario's life further.
Roberto Benigni: Mario Cioni
Alida Valli: Mario's mother
Carlo Monni: Bozzone
Mario Pachi: Gnorante
Berlinguer, I Love You at IMDb
Berlinguer, I Love You at Rotten Tomatoes
Modernity degraded of the peripheries: an analysis of «Berlinguer, ti voglio bene», Linda Brodo, Stefano Brugnolo, in "Intersezioni" 3/2014, pp. 473–498, Il Mulino.
The Nairobi Kenya Temple is a temple of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints located in Nairobi, Kenya. Announced on April 2, 2017, by church president Thomas S. Monson during general conference. It is the church's first constructed in both Kenya and in East Africa. The temple serves members in Kenya and neighboring countries, including Uganda, Tanzania, Ethiopia, Rwanda, and South Sudan.
Located on a 3.435-acre (1.39 ha) site in Mountain View, Nairobi, the temple has a single-story design with a cast-in-place concrete frame and Portuguese Moleanos limestone exterior. Its architecture uses local cultural elements, such as the agapanthus flower motif, reflecting Kenya's prominence as a leading exporter of flowers in Africa. The interior includes two instruction rooms, two sealing rooms, and a baptistry, with native designs and artwork inspired by the Kenyan savanna.
The groundbreaking ceremony was held on September 11, 2021, presided over by Joseph W. Sitati, a general authority and president of the church's Africa Central Area. After construction was completed, a public open house was held from April 17 through May 3, 2025, excluding Sundays. The temple was dedicated on May 18, 2025, by Ulisses Soares of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.
The Nairobi Kenya Temple was announced by church president Thomas S. Monson on April 2, 2017, during general conference.
On July 14, 2021, the church released an exterior rendering of the temple and announced that it would be constructed on a 3.435-acre (1.39 ha) property located at LR# 13646/4, Hinga Road, Mountain View, Nairobi. Preliminary plans called for a single-story structure encompassing approximately 19,870 square feet.
The groundbreaking ceremony took place on September 11, 2021, with Joseph W. Sitati presiding. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, in-person attendance was limited, but the ceremony was broadcast to meetinghouses and homes across Kenya and neighboring countries.
On January 13, 2025, the church announced the public open house that was held from April 17 to May 3, 2025 (excluding Sundays).
The temple was dedicated on May 18, 2025, by Ulisses Soares of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles. The dedicatory session was broadcast to church units throughout the temple district.
The Nairobi Kenya Temple combines design with local cultural influences, like local flowers, and wall tones that were designed to match the Kenyan Savanna, reflecting both its spiritual significance to the church and the heritage of Kenya.
The temple is on a 3.435-acre (1.39 ha) plot at LR# 13646/4, Hinga Road, Mountain View, Nairobi. The landscaping uses native flora, including agapanthus (African lily), symbolizing purity and Kenya's status as a major exporter of flowers. A Christus statue is also located on the grounds.
It is a single-story building with a cast-in-place concrete frame and concrete block partitions. Its exterior features Portuguese Moleanos limestone, chosen for its natural light finish. The design includes a single attached end spire, circular patterns, and floral motifs inspired by the African lily.
The interior features floral motifs, including the agapanthus in art glass and decorative painting. The design draws inspiration from the Kenyan savanna, using neutral tones. The furniture reflects British colonial influences, and textiles use traditional African patterns. The flooring includes Milliken carpet, nylon rugs, and porcelain Cerim Marfil stone accented with Quartzite Blue and Verde Imperiale. The temple contains two instruction rooms, two sealing rooms, and one baptistry.
The church's temples are directed by a temple president and matron, each typically serving for a term of three years. The president and matron oversee the administration of temple operations and provide guidance and training for both temple patrons and staff.
Beginning when dedicated in 2025, the first president is Dominic Chelang-at Kogo, with Alice C. Kogo serving as matron.
After construction was completed, a public open house was held from April 17 through May 3, 2025, excluding Sundays. The temple was dedicated by Ulisses Soares on May 18, 2025.
Like all the church's temples, it is not used for Sunday worship services. To members of the church, temples are regarded as sacred houses of the Lord. Once dedicated, only church members with a current temple recommend can enter for worship.
Gnathostomulidae is a family of worms belonging to the order Bursovaginoidea.
Chirognathia Sterrer & Sørensen, 2006
Corculognathia Ehlers & Ehlers, 1973
Gnathostomula Ax, 1956
Ratugnathia Sterrer, 1991
Semaeognathia Riedl, 1970
Louis Charles Dezobry (4 March 1798 – 16 August 1871) was a 19th-century French historian and historical novelist, born at St-Denis.
Rome au siècle d'Auguste, ou Voyage d'un Gaulois à Rome à l'époque du règne d'Auguste et pendant une partie du règne de Tibère (1835) Inline
La Mauvaise récolte, ou les Suites de l'ignorance (1847)
L'Histoire en peinture, ou Épisodes historiques propres à être traduits en tableaux. Histoire romaine. Tableaux d'histoire, passages historiques, tableaux de genre (1848)
Dictionnaire général de biographie et d'histoire, de mythologie, de géographie ancienne et moderne comparée, des antiquités et des institutions grecques, romaines françaises et étrangères, with Théodore Bachelet (1863)
Référence:Dictionnaire général des lettres, des beaux-arts et des sciences morales et politiques (Bachelet et Dezobry)|Dictionnaire général des lettres, des beaux-arts et des sciences morales et politiques, en collaboration avec Théodore Bachelet (1863)
Dictionnaire pratique et critique de l'art épistolaire français, avec des préceptes et des conseils sur chaque genre ; plus de mille modèles choisis dans les monuments et les documents de la langue française, et des remarques sur chaque lettre (1866)
Traité élémentaire de versification française, suivi d'un album alphabétique des vers proverbes français (1866)
Charles Dezobry on data.bnf.fr
Kaumarapraayam is a 1979 Indian Malayalam film directed by K. S. Gopalakrishnan and starring Krishnachandran, Anuradha, Sukumari and Adoor Bhasi. The film has musical score by Shyam.
Kuthiravattam Pappu
The music was composed by Shyam and the lyrics were written by Chunakkara Ramankutty.
Koumara Praayam at IMDb
Power Politics is a book of poetry by Canadian author Margaret Atwood, published in 1971.
It contains her famous simile:
like a hook into an eye
The violent surprise of this poem is typical of Atwood’s imagery.
Gender is a crucial theme in Power Politics. The collection was often dismissed as a poetic version of Women's Lib although Atwood herself rejected the notion that the Women's Movement influenced the conception of Power Politics.
The 2020–21 Ethiopian Premier League was the 75th season of top-tier football in Ethiopia (22nd season as the Premier League). The season started on 12 December 2020. The first round of matches were held at Addis Abeba and Jimma Stadiums, while the second round of matches were held at Bahir Dar, Dire Dawa and Hawassa stadiums.
Aakhir Kaun Thi Woh? (transl. After all, who was she?) is a 2000 Indian Hindi-language horror romantic film written and directed by Bapu and produced by Avtar Ahluwalia under the banner of Bapu Arts International. The film starred Raj Babbar, Raza Murad, and Sripradha. Lead singers of the movie were Mohammad Aziz, Asha Bhosle, Sonu Nigam, and Suresh Wadkar.
The horror movie is about a female ghost who is on a hunt to find her revenge.
Raj Babbar as Raj
Sadashiv Amrapurkar as V P Sinha
Raza Murad as Police commissioner/Defence Lawyer
Jitendra Bhardwaj
Aakhir Kaun Thi Woh? at IMDb
The 1858 Maine gubernatorial election was held on September 13, 1858, in order to elect the governor of Maine. Incumbent Republican governor Lot M. Morrill won re-election against Democratic nominee Manassah H. Smith in a rematch of the previous election.
On election day, September 13, 1858, incumbent Republican governor Lot M. Morrill won re-election by a margin of 7,986 votes against his opponent Democratic nominee Manassah H. Smith, thereby retaining Republican control over the office of governor. Morrill was sworn in for his second term on January 6, 1859.
Santa Maria Etiopissa is a Romanesque-style, Roman Catholic church located on Strada Marosticana in the neighborhood of Polegge of Vicenza, region of Veneto, Italy. The church was once part of a Lombard abbey.
A church at the site is documented since 1154 as belonging to the Abbey of Pomposa. The church underwent reconstruction around 1490. The simple stone and brick structure has a single, rectangular nave, with a square apse. The bell-tower arises awkwardly from a corner of the facade. A stone bas-relief in the church dates possibly to the 6th or 7th century. A more recent reconstruction took place in 1933.
Singapore Health Services, commonly known as SingHealth, is the largest group of healthcare institutions in Singapore. Established in 2000, the group consists of four public hospitals, two community hospitals, five national specialty centres and a network of eight polyclinics. The Singapore General Hospital (SGH) is the largest hospital in the group and serves as the flagship hospital for the cluster.
In November 1999, then-Minister for Health Lim Hng Kiang announced that Singapore's public healthcare institutions would be reorganised into two delivery networks, or clusters. In October 2000, the formation of the two clusters - National Healthcare Group and SingHealth - was officially completed.
On 3 November 2009, Singapore General Hospital and SingHealth Group, both launched the inaugural issue of Singapore Health – a newspaper reporting on health-related matters affecting Singaporeans.
On 18 November 2011, Changi General Hospital left SingHealth and formed the Eastern Health Alliance along with St. Andrew's Community Hospital, SingHealth Polyclinics and The Salvation Army Peacehaven Nursing Home.
On 20 January 2017, SingHealth announced that it would be merging with the Eastern Health Alliance, bringing Changi General Hospital back into the SingHealth cluster.
SingHealth operates SingHealth Polyclinics, a network of primary care polyclinics largely situated in the southeast, east, and northeast of Singapore. These polyclinics provide primary care services to the population in these areas, and also provide training for family medicine physicians.
Singapore General Hospital is a 1,785-bed tertiary hospital (as of 2017) in Outram. It was founded in 1821, and is the largest and oldest hospital in Singapore. Its campus also includes several other specialty centres as well as Outram Polyclinic.
KK Women's and Children's Hospital is an 830-bed women and children-only hospital in Kampong Java. It was founded 1858 as a small general hospital, but then specialized as a maternity hospital and later added pediatric services. It is the largest hospital in Singapore dedicated to women's and children's healthcare.
Changi General Hospital is a 1,000-bed regional hospital in Simei. It was founded in 1998 to serve patients in the east and northeast of Singapore. In 2011, it left SingHealth to form the Eastern Health Alliance with other healthcare institutions in the area, but in 2017 merged back with SingHealth.
Sengkang General Hospital is a 1,000-bed regional hospital in Sengkang. It was founded in 2012 to serve patients in northeast of Singapore and to alleviate the patient load of Changi General Hospital. It initially trialed operations in Alexandra Hospital and later moved to its current campus in 2018. It is co-located with Sengkang Community Hospital.
The national specialty centres of SingHealth are located in the Singapore General Hospital Outram campus, with the exception of the National Neuroscience Institute which is also co-located in the Tan Tock Seng Hospital Novena campus.
The Singapore National Eye Centre (SNEC) is a specialty centre for ophthalmological services within the public health sector. Aside from clinical services in ophthalmology, the centre also provides education and research services, with its faculty of nearly 80 ophthalmologists. The Singapore Eye Research Institute (SERI) was established as the centre's research arm for eye and vision research.
SNEC manages more than 380,000 patient visits and over 41,000 surgeries annually, many of these are tertiary and complex in nature. The centre's full spectrum of subspecialties addresses every part of the eye – Corneal & External Eye Disease, Cataract & Comprehensive Ophthalmology, Glaucoma, Neuro-Ophthalmology, Ocular Inflammation & Immunology, Oculoplastic, Paediatric Ophthalmology & Adult Strabismus, Refractive Surgery, and Medical & Surgical Retina.
SNEC adopts a multi-subspecialty approach to treating complex eye conditions, as such disorders require strategic management with other disciplines. The centre undertakes 100% video recording of major surgeries and a full audit of outcomes, as well as the pursuit of high-impact translational research (known as clinical-focused research).
The National Cancer Centre Singapore (NCCS) is a national and regional tertiary cancer centre.
To meet growing healthcare needs, the new NCCS building opened in 2023 with increased capacity and expanded facilities dedicated to cancer care, rehabilitation, research and education.
The National Heart Centre Singapore (NHCS) is a specialist medical centre in Singapore for cardiac problems as well as a regional referral centre for cardiovascular diseases. Established in 1994 as the Singapore Heart Centre in the Singapore General Hospital, it was renamed in 1998. The heart centre took over the hospital's cardiac services and set up a cardiology laboratory in 1995. In 2014, the NHCS completed its move to its new purpose-built building within the Singapore General Hospital Outram Campus at 5 Hospital Drive, Singapore 169609. The new building not only includes facilities for outpatient clinics and non-invasive testing, but also has operating theatres and an invasive cardiac catheterisation laboratory.
With over 9,000 inpatient admissions every year, the 186-bed specialty centre for cardiovascular disease in Singapore offers treatments from preventive to rehabilitative cardiac services.
The National Dental Centre Singapore (NDCS) is a facility in Singapore for specialist oral healthcare services. It commenced operations on 1 March 1997 and claims to offer the largest concentration of specialist expertise in a single facility. The Centre's specialist teams attend to over 700 patients daily, including walk-in patients and those being referred to the centre. The Centre is equipped with 92-chair facility and a day surgery suite.
The Centre has three specialist clinical departments, Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Orthodontics and Restorative Dentistry, which attend to a wide range of oral conditions. The Endodontics, Pediatric Dentistry, Periodontics and Prosthodontics services are sub-units within the Department of Restorative Dentistry. Multidisciplinary sub-speciality services are available through the NDC's Centres for Corrective Jaw Surgery, Maxillofacial Rehabilitation and Facial Pain.
The Centre is active in research as well as training, focusing especially on the professional education of dentists. NDCS has been being managed by Singapore Health Services Pte Ltd since 2002 and is located within the Singapore General Hospital Outram campus.
The National Neuroscience Institute (NNI) is the national and regional specialty centre for the management and care of neurological diseases in Singapore, providing treatment for a broad range of illnesses that affect the brain, spine, nerves and muscles. As a national and international centre of excellence in the neurosciences, its mission and goals are — patient care, research and education. The NNI's Neurology, Neurosurgery and Neuroradiology services provide care in these fields not only in Singapore but throughout the region.
The establishment of the NNI in 1999 resulted in the transfer of the departments of Neurology and Neurosurgery from Tan Tock Seng Hospital (TTSH) to form a new clinical service. A new department of Neuroradiology was also set up to provide specialized diagnostic imaging and interventional services for neurological diseases. The NNI now has a campus co-located with SGH in Outram, but — unlike other SingHealth specialty centres — also has a campus alongside Tan Tock Seng Hospital in Novena, Singapore, and also provides specialty services to most other hospitals in Singapore.
Outram Community Hospital is a community hospital in Outram. It is co-located with Singapore General Hospital.
Sengkang Community Hospital is a community hospital in Sengkang. It is co-located with Sengkang General Hospital.
Personal particulars of 1.5 million SingHealth patients and records of medicines dispensed to 160,000 outpatients, were stolen in a cyberattack occurring between 27 June and 4 July 2018. Information relating to the names, National Registration Identity Card numbers, addresses, dates of birth, and race and gender of patients who visited specialist outpatient clinics and polyclinics between 1 May 2015 and 4 July 2018 was maliciously accessed and copied. Information relating to patient diagnosis, test results and doctors' notes were unaffected. Information on Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong was specifically targeted.
In January 2026, SingHealth received a $135 million in donation from the Estate of Khoo Teck Puat to advance medical research and personalised healthcare. This is the largest single donation to a public healthcare institution in Singapore.
National Healthcare Group
National University Health System
Official website
Health Xchange website
The William B. Hayes House is a historic building located in Des Moines, Iowa, United States. The house is significant for its being one of the best examples in Des Moines of the Swiss chalet style subtype of the Stick Style. It was built in 1886 as a single-family dwelling by local developer Lowry W. Goode. This 1½-story frame structure on a brick foundation features a gable-end facade that is intersected by side gables, and wide eaves that are supported by wood braces. The northern side gable extends over an enclosed front porch. The house was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1996.
Craig Baldwin (born 1952) is an American experimental filmmaker. He uses found footage from the fringes of popular consciousness as well as images from the mass media to undermine and transform the traditional documentary, infusing it with the energy of high-speed montage and a provocative commentary that targets subjects from intellectual property rights to rampant consumerism.
Craig Gartrel Baldwin was born in Oakland, California. He grew up the youngest child in a middle-class family in Carmichael. During high school, he became interested in Beatnik culture. He went to underground film screenings and started filming with a Super 8 camera.
Baldwin attended college at University of California at Davis. There, he took film classes through the theatre department and began collecting films. He was also politically active as a student. Baldwin left UC Davis in the early 1970s and later attended the University of California at Santa Barbara.
Baldwin made his Super 8 film Stolen Movie in 1976 by running into movie theaters and filming the screen. He made his next short film, Flick Skin, while working at porn theaters. Baldwin made his 1978 film Wild Gunman, a critical look at the figure of the Marlboro Man, using clips from the 1974 Nintendo arcade game of the same name, as well as B-movies and advertisements obtained from grindhouses.
In 1984, Baldwin moved to San Francisco's Mission District and contributed to the founding of Artists' Television Access In 1987, he started his long-running Other Cinema series at the space. In 1986, Baldwin earned an M.A. from San Francisco State University. It was there that he first became interested in collage film during his studies with Bruce Conner.
It was during this period that Baldwin started amassing a large collection of film works, many of which were discarded by institutions moving over to VHS. He drew from this collection for his 1986 film RocketKitKongoKit, which narrates the CIA's role in establishing Mobutu Sese Seko's military dictatorship in Zaire (now the DR Congo) and the history of rocket testing there by a German weapons manufacturer. It often visually re-enacts the story with loosely associated footage, such as cartoons, industrial films, or science fiction films. Like many of Baldwin's later works, RocketKitKongoKit used documentary techniques not to present an authoritative history but to counter official histories by presenting alternative histories and blurring the boundaries between them.
An early proponent of culture jamming, Baldwin has altered billboards with political messages and has documented the work of the Billboard Liberation Front through the 1990s.
Tribulation 99: Alien Anomalies Under America (1991) is an account of CIA intervention in developing countries (as well as a critique of paranoid conspiracy theories) presented in the form of a pseudo-documentary that recounts the history of an alien occupation of Latin America in 99 brief ramblings. J. Hoberman put Tribulation 99 as #3 on his list of the ten best films 1991–2000.
Baldwin's ¡O No Coronado! (1992) is a retelling of the invasion of the American southwest by Francisco Vázquez de Coronado in the mid-16th century. It was his first film to include original live-action footage. His next film, Sonic Outlaws, spotlights the Concord-based band Negativland, which was sued in 1991 by U2 over a parody sound collage it had made. Baldwin's film chronicles that case along with various activist groups working for copyright reform.
Baldwin's 1999 film Spectres of the Spectrum is a science fiction allegory that tells the story of a young woman with telepathic powers who travels back in time to save the world from an electro-magnetic pulse. The film takes a cautionary stance against the media outlets in charge of creating and perpetuating the popular mainstream, and in doing so, follows the trajectory, through collage, of media from its beginnings to the present. In 2000 Baldwin received the Moving Image Creative Capital Award.
Baldwin established Other Cinema Digital in 2003 to provide distribution for films by independent, underground, and experimental filmmakers. In 2005 the label partnered with Facets Video to distribute a series of works on DVD.
In 2008, Baldwin created Mock Up on Mu, a fictional story based heavily on real facts of the lives of L. Ron Hubbard, Marjorie Cameron, Aleister Crowley, and Jack Parsons. Mostly assembled from found footage, Mock Up on Mu includes more original live-action footage than in earlier projects.
Baldwin has taught at UC Davis and UC Berkeley. Craig Baldwin: Avant to Live!, a 2023 book published by San Francisco Cinematheque and INCITE, surveys his work and career.
Stolen Movie (1976)
Flick Skin (1977)
Wild Gunman (1978)
RocketKitKongoKit (1986)
Tribulation 99: Alien Anomalies Under America (1991)
¡O No Coronado! (1992)
Sonic Outlaws (1995)
Spectres of the Spectrum (1999)
Mock Up on Mu (2009)
Craig Baldwin at IMDb
Profile of Baldwin on Flicker
Profile of Baldwin at Disinformation
Who Owns the Airwaves?
Video Interview with Baldwin at Cargo Magazine
Interview with Craig Baldwin
Innisfail Court House is a heritage-listed court house at 10 Edith Street, Innisfail, Cassowary Coast Region, Queensland, Australia. It is the town's third court house. It was designed in the inter-war classical style by the Department of Public Works (Queensland) and built in 1939 by day labour. The current court house is a two-storeyed brick building with a corrugated-iron roof. It was added to the Queensland Heritage Register on 13 January 1995.
Opened in March 1940, this was the third court house to be built in Innisfail, replacing the Second Innisfail Court House, a timber building erected in 1888. The building was designed in the office of the Department of Public Works; Andrew Baxter Leven was the Queensland Government Architect at the time.
The Johnstone River area was settled by cedar-cutters, with the first major planting of sugar cane by occurring in 1880. TH Fitzgerald is generally credited with planting the first sugar cane, and was responsible for the erection of the first mill in the area, late in 1881. Also in 1881, a town was laid out at the junction of the South Johnstone and North Johnstone Rivers, known reputedly as the Junction. The name Geraldton was given to the town in 1883.
Geraldton's first official building was erected c. 1881, probably on the police reserve, accommodated a police station, court house, unofficial post office, lands office, customs office, an office for the Clerk of Petty Sessions and a gaol. Tenders for a new court house was called in late 1887, and plans for the building indicate the location of the building as on the corner of the police reserve bounded by Edith and Rankin Streets.
The name of the town was changed to Innisfail in 1910. By the late 1900s-early 1910s, the Innisfail district was attracting attention from both land speculators and settlers. The Queensland Government had expressed its intention of opening up the Mourilyan Harbour, and of resuming and extending the local tramline inland from the coast, giving further impetus to the development of the district.
Innisfail was devastated by a record flood in 1913, then by a cyclone in 1918, which destroyed many of the town's timber buildings. Despite these setbacks, the town prospered and opened its third sugar mill in 1916. Soldier settlement was established in Johnstone Shire around 1918, and in 1922, a number of blocks were made available to returned soldiers for growing sugar cane. Completion of the North Coast railway from Brisbane to Cairns in 1924, gave further impetus to the development of the district. By the 1920s, the Innisfail sugar industry was producing vast quantities of sugar cane and record yields of sugar, and the prosperity thisbought to the town was reflected in the many substantial buildings erected in the twenties and thirties. These include important civic buildings such as the first wing of the hospital, the Roman Catholic Church, the Commonwealth Bank and other commercial premises. Also important in the town's development were the opening of the Jubilee Bridge in 1923, linking the town with East Innisfail and Mourilyan, and the Dardgee Railway Bridge in 1924.
Although consideration was given to the likely need for expanded court house facilities to cope with an increasing amount of official and legal business, it was not until 1937 that plans for the erection of a new court house were drawn up, including the erection of a new two-storeyed brick court house on the site of the timber court house, and relocation of the timber court house to the east of the new court house, for use as the police office and barracks.
During the 1930s Great Depression, Labor Premier William Forgan Smith established a government initiated works scheme under the Income (Unemployment Relief) Act (1930) to create employment. This involved the employment of architects, foremen, labourers and the use of local materials in the design and construction of government buildings such as court houses, government offices and state schools. The Innisfail and Mackay court houses are two fine examples of the substantial brick buildings erected through this work scheme.
The new building was completed in late 1939. Offices for a number of Government Departments were provided on the ground floor, with the court room and court facilities located on the first floor of the building. Minor alterations have been undertaken to the building in recent years, including the addition of a small air conditioning enclosure at the south east end of the court house.
The court house served as a coordinating point for the Cyclone Larry relief effort in 2006.
Innisfail Court House, designed in the inter-war classical style, is a two-storeyed brick building with a corrugated-iron roof and rendered details to the gables and verandahs. A curved portico forms the entrance to the building and addresses the corner through two columns with Ionic capitals. A double-height verandah runs down each street facade. The gables are embellished with broken pediments and Venetian windows.
The court house was listed on the former Register of the National Estate. Innisfail Court House was listed on the Queensland Heritage Register on 13 January 1995 having satisfied the following criteria.
Completed in 1939 as the third court house in Innisfail, this building survives as an example of the development of Innisfail as a commercial and official centre for the surrounding district from the late nineteenth century, and of the prosperity accompanying the expansion of settlement and the sugar industry in the Johnstone area during the early twentieth century.
The Innisfail Court House is a good example of a substantial brick court house which reflects the high standard of Government buildings in Queensland designed by the Department of Public Works during the early-mid 20th century.
The form of the building in relation to its prominent corner location, scale and materials, contribute to the Edith and Rankin Street streetscapes and Innisfail townscape.
Designed and constructed as part of a Government initiated Works scheme created to generate employment throughout Queensland during the 1930s, the Innisfail Court House is also a fine example of the work completed under this scheme.
This Wikipedia article incorporates text from "The Queensland heritage register" published by the State of Queensland under CC-BY 3.0 AU licence (accessed on 7 July 2014, archived on 8 October 2014). The geo-coordinates were computed from the "Queensland heritage register boundaries" published by the State of Queensland under CC-BY 3.0 AU licence (accessed on 5 September 2014, archived on 15 October 2014).
Media related to Innisfail Court House at Wikimedia Commons
Innisfail Court House Discover Queensland Buildings website
Isaac Newton S/O Philipose is a 2013 Malayalam film directed by V. Bosse, starring Lal, Nedumudi Venu, Tini Tom and Abhinaya.
The film has soundtrack composed by Bijibal.
A critic from Sify gave the film three out of five stars and wrote, "Isaac Newton s/o Philipose is loud and absurd even for those who are looking for brainless entertainers. Go for a walk or sleep for a while, which could be a more sensible option than this ridiculous misadventure." A critic from The Times of India gave the film two out of five stars and wrote, "The film is spoilt by a narrative that lacks freshness. Commendable portrayals from the lead actors fail to salvage a film already marred by a stale story."
Isaac Newton S/O Philipose at IMDb
The 2019 season was Haugesund's 10th season in the Tippeligaen following their promotion in 2009.
On 7 January, Eirik Horneland became manager of Rosenborg, with Jostein Grindhaug being announced as Haugesund's new manager the following day.
As of 19 August 2019
Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.
Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.
As of match played 8 December 2019
Françoise Cadol (born 4 December 1963) is a French actress, singer and playwright.
She trained at the Paris drama school Cours Simon alongside Niels Arestrup and Denise Noël.
She has written several plays. Her first was Chop Suey in 2002, inspired by the painting of the same name by Edward Hopper. In 2021 she adapted the Grégoire Delacourt novel La femme qui ne vieillissait pas for stage and played the role of Betty. In 2022 she wrote, directed and appeared in Une Nuit avec Monsieur Teste.
Cadol has regularly provided the French voice for actresses such as Sandra Bullock, Angelina Jolie, Michelle Yeoh, Tilda Swinton, Winona Ryder, Toni Collette, Rose Byrne, Brenda Strong, Patricia Arquette, Sharon Stone and Melinda McGraw.
She has played the French language version of numerous anime roles, including Roodaka in Bionicle 3, Tenar in Tales from Earthsea, Yasuko Kusakabe in My Neighbor Totoro, and Kokiri in Kiki's Delivery Service. Since 2016 she has dubbed the voice of Catwoman in numerous films from DC Comics.
She is known for providing her voice to several video game characters, most notably that of Lara Croft in the Tomb Raider series between 1996 and 2008, as well as the spin offs Lara Croft and the Guardian of Light and Lara Croft and the Temple of Osiris. She is the voice of lawyer Kate Walker in the Syberia game and its sequels, and Madison Page in Heavy Rain.
She has provided voice over for several television advertisements, including campaigns for Auchan, Gaz de France and BMW. In 2021 she was the voice of the adverts for the French contract tracing app, TousAntiCovid.
Françoise Cadol at IMDb
Bootsy? Player of the Year is the third album by the American funk band Bootsy's Rubber Band. The album was released on Warner Bros. Records on January 20, 1978. At the height of the album's popularity, it competed head to head with Bootsy Collins' mentor George Clinton and his band Parliament, who had released the album Funkentelechy Vs. the Placebo Syndrome just two months earlier. The album was produced by Clinton and Collins and arranged by "The Player". The original vinyl version of the album contained a pair of cut out star shaped eyeglasses.
The album was reissued in 1990 by Warner/Pioneer of Japan, then through WEA International in the mid-1990s and then by Time/Warner in the U.S. in April 1998.
Bootsy? Player of the Year featured two hit singles, "Bootzilla", which went to number one on the Billboard Hot Soul Singles charts, and "Hollywood Squares". The album peaked at number one on the Billboard Soul Album charts for four non-consecutive weeks. It sold more than 500,000 copies in its first six months of release.
Radio Active / A / Side 1
"Bootsy? (What's the Name of This Town)" (Bootsy Collins, George Clinton, Maceo Parker) - (6:59)
"May the Force Be with You" (Bootsy Collins, George Clinton, Gary Cooper) - (6:02)
"Very Yes" (Bootsy Collins, George Clinton, Gary Cooper) - (8:24)
Monster Rock / A+ / Side 2
"Bootzilla" (Bootsy Collins, George Clinton) - (5:38) (released as a single-Warners WB 8512)
"Hollywood Squares" (Bootsy Collins, George Clinton, Frank Waddy) - (6:15)(released as a single-Warner WBS 8575)
"Roto-Rooter" (Bootsy Collins, George Clinton, Phelps Collins) - (6:25)
"As In (I Love You)" (Bootsy Collins, George Clinton, Bernie Worrell) - (5:08)
Phelps Collins, Bootsy Collins – guitar
Frank Waddy, Bootsy Collins, Gary Cooper – drums
Bootsy Collins – bass
Joel Johnson – keyboards
Fred Wesley, Maceo Parker, Richard Griffith, Rick Gardner – horns
Gary Cooper, Robert Johnson – vocals
List of number-one R&B albums of 1978 (U.S.)
Album at Discogs
The All-Russia Thermal Engineering Institute was an organisation founded by the Soviet of Labor and Defense “for the purpose of systematic studying and working-out the vital practical issues in heat engineering and for solving related technical and economic problems, as well as for training high-skilled specialists” on July 13, 1921. The first director was Leonid Ramzin.
Altner is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
Georg Altner (1901–1945), German politician
Günter Altner (1936–2011), German biologist, theologian, ecologist, environmentalist, writer, and lecturer
Stefan Altner, German musician, musicologist, and manager
Zdeněk Altner (born 1947), Czech lawyer and advocate
Fox William Mulder () is a fictional FBI Special Agent and one of the two protagonists of the Fox science fiction-supernatural television series The X-Files, played by David Duchovny. Mulder's peers dismiss his many theories on extraterrestrial or paranormal activity as those of a conspiracy theorist and supernaturalist; however, his skeptical but supportive partner, Special Agent Dana Scully, often finds them to be unexpectedly correct. He and Scully work in the X-Files office, concerned with unsolved FBI cases that are often revealed to be supernatural or extraterrestrial in nature. Mulder was a main character for the first seven seasons, but was then limited to a recurring character for the following two seasons. He returns as a main character for the tenth and eleventh seasons.
Mulder made his first appearance in the first season pilot episode, broadcast in 1993. Mulder believes in extraterrestrial unidentified flying objects (UFOs) and a government conspiracy to hide or deny the truth of their existence. Mulder considers the X-Files and the truth behind the supposed conspiracy so important that he has made them the main focus of his life.
Mulder was born on October 13, 1961, on the island of Martha's Vineyard, Massachusetts. The mysterious disappearance of Mulder's sister and his ensuing search for her became the consuming drive of his life. In 1983, Mulder graduated with first-class honors from the University of Oxford with a Bachelor of Arts degree in psychology. He then graduated with honors from the Quantico FBI Training Academy in 1986. Mulder joined the FBI on October 24, 1984. Upon graduating from the academy, Mulder began his work in the Behavioral Science Unit (psychological profiling) under Special Agent Bill Patterson, with whom he had a testy relationship.
In 1988, the FBI assigned Mulder to the Violent Crimes Unit. Around this time, Mulder first came across the X-Files, an obscure FBI section dealing with cases relating to the paranormal; he pored over these cases in his spare time, becoming obsessed with them. In 1991, Mulder re-opened the X-Files with Special Agent Diana Fowley, but Fowley left shortly thereafter. Mulder investigated the X-Files by himself until March 1992, when Special Agent Dana Scully, an instructor at the FBI Academy's Forensic Science Research and Training Center, was partnered with him for the purpose of applying scientific reasoning to Mulder's work and theories.
Mulder's ultimate goal was to uncover what he believed to be a government conspiracy to hide the truth about alien life, and to find out what had happened to his sister. His quest and belief in the existence of aliens were, for most of the series, the driving force of the plot, or mytharc. However, during a period of time after Scully's cancer went into remission (season 5), Mulder was convinced by Michael Kritschgau that aliens did not in fact exist and that the government conspirators had merely concocted that threat as a smokescreen, to justify military activities and toy with him.
During the seventh season, Mulder eventually discovers the truth about his sister. Samantha was abducted (either by the alien colonists or the government conspirators), and various tests were performed on her. She was then returned to The Smoking Man to live out her life under his supervision, all the while undergoing additional tests. She was unable to bear the testing any longer so she ran away from her home and was eventually admitted to a nearby hospital, where she disappeared from her locked room. It is revealed that Samantha was taken by "spiritual intervention", with the help of beings called "Walk-ins". Mulder is briefly reunited with Samantha's spirit.
Mulder was also abducted by the aliens himself in 2000, and returned to Earth, almost dead, a few months later. He had been infected by an alien virus (for the second time), but Scully found a way to rescue him. After Mulder returned home to his apartment, an application was submitted to the FBI for his reinstatement to the X-Files but this was declined by Deputy Director Alvin Kersh, who had been promoted in charge of the X-Files shortly after Mulder had been abducted. He returned to work for a brief period of time, but was eventually fired for failure to follow orders not to investigate any X-Files. After Scully gave birth to William, Mulder went into hiding in New Mexico after Kersh said his life was in danger.
After about a year in hiding, Mulder obtains crucial information from a secret facility about the date of the planned alien colonization effort, but is caught and put on trial for the murder of Knowle Rohrer. Despite a defense organized by Walter Skinner with numerous witnesses, the judges sentence Mulder to death. With help from several people, including a reformed Kersh and the ghost of Alex Krycek, Mulder breaks out of prison and escapes with Scully. As of the series finale, Mulder and Scully were on the run. Six years after the events of the ninth season, Fox Mulder's fugitive status is clear. Scully mentions that he is wanted by the FBI and the dialogue also shows that the FBI does not really want to find him and is simply happy to have him "out of their hair". He is called to assist with the investigation of a missing FBI agent. In exchange for his help, all charges against him are dropped.
Seven years later, Mulder returns to the FBI when the X-Files is re-opened, in order to look into a government conspiracy, when it transpires they have been using alien technology. Along with Scully, they investigate several cases together like they had done originally. Six weeks after their return to the X-Files, Mulder confronts an alive Smoking Man to try to prevent him from carrying out a plan to depopulate the United States using a virus applied to smallpox vaccines. In a vision of Scully's, Mulder falls sick to the disease, but refuses the Smoking Man's help and his proposal to join his elite. Mulder is saved by Agent Miller and they regroup with Scully; however, she says Mulder needs a blood transfusion and only their son can give it to them. At that moment, an unidentified flying object hovers over the trio, which is where season ten ends. The beginning of season eleven reveals this vision came from Scully's son, William. Over the course of season eleven, Scully and Mulder search for William. Skinner learns from the Smoking Man that the Smoking Man, who is Mulder's father, also artificially impregnated Scully, and thus is William's father as well. In the third episode of the eleventh season, "Plus One", Scully and Mulder are intimate again. In the season 11 finale, "My Struggle IV", she reveals to Mulder that she is pregnant with his child.
Despite his aloofness and cynical sense of humor, Mulder displays unbridled enthusiasm and interest when it comes to the paranormal, especially because of his personal involvement after his sister's abduction. Walter Skinner and other FBI officials have become concerned by his unprofessional behavior. This only proves true as Mulder makes a habit of letting his personal feelings cloud his judgment; his emotional attachment to UFO cases becomes more severe throughout the series, because of Dana Scully's eventual abduction and resultant cancer as well as his sister's abduction. Mulder can lose his temper when Scully is involved; on multiple occasions, he has become violent in his grief and unreserved in threatening physical force. Mulder's overprotectiveness of Scully stems not only from his obvious devotion and love for her, but also a long-harbored guilt; Mulder has admitted feeling indirectly responsible for the ordeals and tragedies Scully had gone through because of their investigations.
In the episode "Drive", Mulder facetiously apologizes on behalf of the "international Jewish conspiracy" in response to the abusive and anti-Semitic tirades of a suspect, to which Mulder appears to take offense; the suspect also guesses Mulder's ethnicity is Jewish based on his last name. Despite this, in the episode "Kaddish", Mulder is unable to identify a Talmudic book, states that he does not know Hebrew, and quips that Jesus returned from the dead. Also, Mulder, as his father before him, had a Christian burial presided over by a Protestant minister following his apparent "death" in the episode "Deadalive". This suggests he hails from a Protestant background, as Scully hails from a Catholic background. Mulder also seeks comfort in a Christian church following the events of the episode "Conduit". Of course Mulder could conceivably be of a Jewish ethnic descent but a Christian background, perhaps through ancestral marriage or conversion. David Duchovny suggested Mulder is Jewish when interviewed during production of the second season. In the episode "The Field Where I Died", Mulder went into a hypnotic trance and recalls a past life, where he is in a concentration camp during the Holocaust, and another where he was a Confederate soldier killed in the Battle of Chattanooga.
Mulder is almost never seen sleeping in a bed. The bedroom in his apartment (which appeared as late as the sixth season of the show's run) is apparently used for storage and is filled floor to ceiling with junk, including a couple of boxes of pornographic magazines. Instead, Mulder sleeps on his couch, often falling asleep to a blaring television. Mulder can seem to go through manic periods when worried or working on a case, contributing to or exacerbating his insomniac tendencies. Since "Dreamland II" where a "man in black" body-swaps with Mulder and takes over his life, Mulder gets his bedroom renovated and equipped with a waterbed. In "Monday" he finds himself soaked through when his waterbed (which he can't remember getting because Morris Fletcher got it in Dreamland) is leaking.
Mulder had a rather strained relationship with his parents Bill and Teena Mulder, not least thanks to the X-Files. Initially, he had no idea his father was involved in the conspiracy and Samantha's disappearance. Bill, who became disenchanted with the shadow government and his own role in the conspiracy, eventually approached Fox about his past deeds but was shot and killed by Alex Krycek – working as an assassin for the Syndicate – before he could reveal any great amount of information. Over the next few years, Mulder got into several conflicts with his mother while trying to discover the extent of her own knowledge of his father's precise involvement. Teena dies of an apparent suicide when the stress of Samantha's abduction finally becomes too painful.
During the last years of his work on the X-Files, Mulder was even forced to doubt that Bill was his true father. He is led to consider the possibility that his mother had had an affair with the Smoking Man, a connection which may have resulted in the birth of either Samantha or Mulder himself. The possibility was hinted at later in the series, and Jeffrey Spender, who certainly was the Smoking Man's son, said that Mulder was his half-brother. In the ninth season, "William" explains that Spender and Mulder have very similar DNA, providing strong evidence that they do have the same father.
During his studies at Oxford, around the year of 1983, he was dating Phoebe Green; future investigator of Metropolitan Police Service (season 1, episode 12, Fire). When he started his work on The X-Files, around 1991, he was close with his current partner; Diana Fowley (season 5, episode 20, The End). None of those remained longterm and stable.
Mulder's closest friend was FBI partner Dana Scully, who was assigned to "debunk [his] work" by the conspirators and the FBI brass. But against their intentions, her loyalties quickly became affixed to Mulder's quest and Mulder himself, a connection which seemed to pull Mulder's work out of obscurity, as Scully's scientific bent afforded them a certain amount of credibility. Their intense professional and personal relationship continued to strengthen through the years. While the relationship was platonic for the greater part of the series, there are clues that it developed into a romantic one by the last few seasons. Mulder and Scully almost always called each other by their surnames – Mulder purportedly hated his first name, but Scully had no such aversion. At the fourth episode of season seven the romantic undertones were confirmed when the two shared a kiss. In the series finale, the final scene depicted Mulder and Scully after running away together, in bed together, contemplating what the future held. In the season 11 finale Scully revealed to be pregnant with his unborn child.
Mulder's greatest nemesis was The Smoking Man, who, despite his obvious ill-intent, seemed to hold Mulder in special regard. Though he mocked Mulder to his face for his foolishness and the futility of his quest, in "Two Fathers", he told his son Jeffrey Spender, "You pale [sic] to Fox Mulder." Mulder also developed an intense enmity for Alex Krycek, a double agent who briefly worked with Mulder in the FBI as an infiltrator, and who continued to serve as a recurring adversary, acting as an assassin for the Syndicate in the murders of Bill Mulder and Melissa Scully.
Duchovny portrays Mulder as a series regular for the first seven seasons of the show. Duchovny left the show following the seventh-season finale "Requiem", wherein he was abducted by aliens. Although he makes a handful of cameos in the first part of season eight—most notably in the episodes "Within", "Without", "The Gift", and "Per Manum"—Mulder is returned by the aliens and the latter part of the season deals with his death, subsequent resurrection, and his departure from the FBI. After the conclusion of the eighth season, Duchovny left the show and only appeared in four ninth-season episodes: "Trust No 1", "Jump the Shark", "William", and "The Truth". Duchovny's appearances in "Trust No 1" and "Jump the Shark" were via archival footage, and he only made a small cameo in the third. However, his appearance in "The Truth", the program's series finale, was substantial, and Duchovny was once again listed in the credits as starring.
David Duchovny had worked in Los Angeles three years prior to The X-Files. At first, he wanted to base his acting career around films, but in 1993 his manager Melanie Green gave him a script of the pilot episode of The X-Files. Green and Duchovny were both convinced it was a good script, so Duchovny auditioned for the lead. When Duchovny was auditioning for the part of Fox Mulder, he made a terrific audition but talked rather slowly. Chris Carter thought that he was a good judge of character, and thought that Duchovny wasn't too bright. So he talked to Duchovny and asked him if he could please imagine himself as an FBI agent for the future weeks. The casting director of the show was very positive about him, while according to Carter, Duchovny turned out to be one of the best-read people he knew. After getting the role, Duchovny thought the show wouldn't last for long or that it wouldn't make as much impact as it did.
Carter has said that he named Mulder after his mother's maiden name. His first name, Fox, was actually not a tribute to the Fox network which aired The X-Files, as often assumed – Carter said he had a childhood friend named Fox. Mulder was inspired by the fictional character Carl Kolchak, a newspaper reporter Carter described as a "believer" just like Mulder. Kolchak was in turn inspired by the fictional character Harry Picard, a policeman in Les Whitten's vampire novel The Progeny of the Adder. Duchovny got the script with many of Mulder's characteristics fully formed. Executive producer Frank Spotnitz called portraying actor Duchovny amazingly smart. He further stated that Duchovny was behind some of the main characteristic ideas behind Mulder.
At the end of the seventh season Duchovny was in negotiations with the Fox network, saying he wanted more money (while not saying how much) and an improved work schedule, among other issues. After settling his contract dispute, Duchovny quit full-time participation in the show after the seventh season. This contributed to uncertainties over the likelihood of an eighth season. Carter and most fans felt the show was at its natural endpoint with Duchovny's departure, but it was decided Mulder would be abducted at the end of the seventh season, leaving things open for the actor's return in 12 episodes the following year. Duchovny's character Mulder was replaced by John Jay Doggett (portrayed by Robert Patrick). In season nine, Duchovny wasn't available for shooting, so he only appeared in three episodes with small cameos, the first being an archive footage only in "Trust No 1", a brief cameo in "William", which he also directed and appeared full-time in the series finale, "The Truth".
After the show ended, Carter and Frank Spotnitz started to talk about a movie sequel. Duchovny stated in an interview that very same year that it always had been a desire to come back to the franchise, saying it was a natural stage of development for the franchise to go to the cinema. When talking about Mulder in The X-Files: I Want to Believe, Duchovny said that he wanted to play him a "little different". He continued saying that Mulder had "lost every battle" and was "beaten down by life ... . He's the same guy, but he is older Mulder".
Mulder had a brief cameo on The Lone Gunmen, an X-Files spin-off featuring the characters of the same name. He appeared on the episode "All About Yves". In the Millennium episode "Lamentation", the main character, Frank Black, visits the FBI Academy in Quantico, Virginia, and Mulder and Dana Scully are briefly seen descending a stairway. In fact, they are Duchovny and Anderson's stand-ins.
Duchovny was nominated for two Emmy Awards in 1997 and 1998 in the category "Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series", but lost. He was nominated for a Golden Globe Award in 1995 in the category "Best Actor – Drama Series". Two years later he was again nominated for a Golden Globe in the same category and won, in 1997 and 1998 he was nominated in the same category but didn't win. Duchovny has been nominated five times in the category "Outstanding Actor – Drama Series" by the Screen Actors Guild awards but didn't win once. Duchovny won a Satellite Award in the category "Best Actor – Drama Series" in 1997, and was nominated once again 1998.
Animated versions of Mulder appeared on The Simpsons and Eek! the Cat (both series which have been featured in episodes of The X-Files), in the episodes "The Springfield Files" and "Eek Space-9", respectively. Both featured the voice acting of Duchovny. Duchovny appeared as Mulder on the sketch show Saturday Night Live with Molly Shannon as Scully, when he hosted an episode. Joining him was co-star Nicholas Lea, who would appear as Alex Krycek in a sketch that spoofed The X-Files.
The New York Times writer Joyce Millman said that Twin Peaks character Special Agent Dale Cooper could have been Mulder's "quirky ... spiritual twin" if David Duchovny hadn't appeared in the show earlier. When reviewing The X-Files: I Want to Believe, reviewer Moira Macdonald said it was a "kick" watching Duchovny and Gillian Anderson (who portrayed Dana Scully). Jesse Hassenger from PopMatters when reviewing season eight, was throughout negative to the new season, claiming that Patrick was miscast and calling David Duchovny's appearances as Mulder shallow. Critics and fans alike have praised Duchovny and Anderson's "on-screen chemistry" for years. Richard Corliss from Time magazine praised Duchovny for settling in his role so "quickly" and calling the character "an obsessive plodder". Robert Patrick, the actor who replaced Duchovny as the male lead after the seventh season, commented that the chemistry Duchovny and Gillian Anderson had, could only happen "once in a lifetime".
TV Guide ranked Fox Mulder #7 in its "50 Greatest Sci-Fi Legends" list.
Henry Abbott or Abbot may refer to:
Henry Abbot (martyr) (died 1597), English layman
Henry Abbott (Irish judge) (born 1947), former judge of the Irish High Court, 2002–2017; former Irish Fianna Fáil politician and barrister
Henry Larcom Abbot (1831–1927), American military engineer and civil war general
Henry Livermore Abbott (1842–1864), American civil war soldier
Henry William Charles Abbott (1807 or 1812–1859), for whom the Abbott Papyrus is named.
Henry Abbott (merchant) (1834–1876), British merchant acting as consul for Germany in Tessaloniki, killed in the Salonika Incident
Henry Abbott Technical High School, Danbury, Connecticut
Harry Abbott (disambiguation)
Janice Elaine Robinson (born December 28, 1951, Clairton, Pennsylvania) is an American jazz trombonist and trumpeter.
Robinson played trombone on The Bill Cosby Show in her teens, at which time she also played trumpet, and received a bachelor's degree from the Eastman School of Music in 1973. She then played with Chuck Mangione and doubled trombone and trumpet on his album Land of Make Believe’’, the Jazz Composer's Orchestra, Clark Terry, Sam Rivers, Buddy Rich, the Thad Jones-Mel Lewis Orchestra, Gil Evans, Frank Foster, and Slide Hampton. In 1978 she assembled a small ensemble with Sharon Freeman, Buster Williams, and Kenny Kirkland as sidemen. In the early 1980s she continued working with Foster as well as with Dizzy Gillespie and George Gruntz. Other work included associations with McCoy Tyner, Marian McPartland, Billy Taylor, David "Fathead" Newman, Carmen McRae, Idris Muhammad, Lionel Hampton, Woody Shaw, Mercer Ellington, Jimmy Owens, Grant Green, Sarah Vaughan, Dexter Gordon, and Kazumi Watanabe.
With Frank Foster
Bursting Out! (Denon, 1978)
Manhattan Fever (Denon, 1978)
Shiny Stockings (Denon, 1979)
Twelve Shades of Black for All Intentions and Purposes (Leo, 1979)
Well Water (Piadrum, 2007)
With Lionel Hampton
Blackout (Who's Who in Jazz, 1977)
Who's Who in Jazz Presents Lionel Hampton (Philips, 1977)
Dizzy Spells (Jazz Time, 1993)
Speak No Evil (RCA Victor, 1976)
The Exciting Buddy Rich (RCA, 1979)
No Jive (Novus, 1992)
Hank Crawford, Centerpiece (Buddah, 1980)
D Train, You're the One for Me (Prelude, 1982)
Cornell Dupree, Shadow Dancing (Versatile, 1978)
Gil Evans, Live in Dortmund 1976 (JazzTraffic, 2017)
Ricky Ford, Loxodonta Africana (New World, 1977)
Grant Green, Easy (Versatile, 1978)
Slide Hampton, World of Trombones (West 54, 1979)
Phyllis Hyman, Phyllis Hyman (Buddah, 1977)
Paul Jabara, De La Noche: The True Story A Poperetta (Warner Bros., 1986)
Thad Jones & Mel Lewis, Suite for Pops (A&M/Horizon, 1975)
Thad Jones & Mel Lewis, New Life Dedicated to Max Gordon (A&M/Horizon, 1976)
Van McCoy, And His Magnificent Movie Machine (H&L, 1977)
Van McCoy, Lonely Dancer (MCA, 1979)
Carmen McRae, I'm Coming Home Again New York 1978 (Jazzaround, 2000)
Chuck Mangione, Encore (Mercury, 1975)
Chuck Mangione, Chuck Mangione's Finest Hour (Verve, 2000)
Grachan Moncur III & Jazz Composer's Orchestra, Echoes of Prayer (JCOA, 1975)
Idris Muhammad, You Ain't No Friend of Mine! (Fantasy, 1978)
Jimmy Owens, Headin' Home (A&M/Horizon, 1978)
David Ruffin, In My Stride (Motown, 1977)
Woody Shaw, Rosewood (CBS/Sony 1978)
Clark Terry, Clark Terry's Big-B-a-d-Band Live at the Wichita Jazz Festival 1974 (Vanguard, 1975)
Clifford Thornton & Jazz Composer's Orchestra, The Gardens of Harlem (JCOA, 1975)
McCoy Tyner, Inner Voices (Milestone, 1978)
Martha Velez, American Heartbeat (Sire, 1977)
Kazumi Watanabe, The Best Performance (Better Days, 1982)
Stevie Wonder, Stevie Wonder's Original Musiquarium 1 (Tamla, 1982)
The World's First Collaborative Sentence is a work of internet art by Douglas Davis begun in 1994. It is held by the Whitney Museum of American Art, and one version of it remains live to the present day.
Douglas Davis began the "sentence without a period" in 1994 at the art gallery at Lehman College, inviting people to contribute "words, photographs, video, graphics, WWW links, and sound via the Internet, the World Wide Web, email, regular mail, and personal visits." It was acquired by the Whitney Museum of American Art in 1995 but became plagued by technical problems such as file loss, link rot, and formatting issues. By the year 2000, the sentence had received nearly 200,000 contributions.
In 2012, the Whitney decided to resurrect the work but found that it was completely unusable due to out-of-date code and links. Restoring the work generated a debate among conservators as to whether the links and code should be updated or left in their original state as a testament to the ephemeral nature of the web. The Whitney ultimately decided to duplicate the work and display two versions. The historical version, which is now locked to new contributions, was left frozen in time with broken and old links redirected through the Wayback Machine to the 1990s version of sites when possible. The updated, "live" version, allows people to continue to contribute to the sentence, and the Whitney has opened some aspects of its maintenance to outside users.
Chumen (simplified Chinese: 楚门; traditional Chinese: 楚門; pinyin: Chǔmén) is a town under the jurisdiction of Yuhuan, Taizhou, Zhejiang province, China. It is the hometown of China's pomelo. Chumen is situated in the north of Yuhuan and in the heart of the peninsula. Chumen's area is 37.5km2 (14.5mi²) and as of 2018 there are 18 villages and 3 residential committees under its authority.
In the ancient times Chumen was under the sea where Mount Yaji (丫髻山) and Mount Xiqing (西青山) formed an estuary. It later rose above sea level when the Yuan dynasty (1341–1367) government enclosed the tideland for cultivation. The town was named after the cluster of Chu trees (Vitex) that grew there.
During the Hongwu Emperor's reign (1368–1398) in the Ming dynasty (1368–1644), he had his imperial army build the town in 1387, and Chumen was first administered by Yueqing County. During the reign of the Ming dynasty Chenghua Emperor (reigned 1464–1487), it became part of Taiping County in 1476. Chumen was governed by Yuhuan officials beginning in 1728, during the Yongzheng Emperor's reign (1722–1735) in the Qing dynasty (1644–1912). During the Republican period (1912–1949), Chumen was reclassified as a town belonging to Yuhuan County. In May 1992, the townships of Tian Ma and Waitang merged into what is now known as Chumen.
List of township-level divisions of Zhejiang
The castra of Cincșor was a fort in the Roman province of Dacia in the 2nd and 3rd centuries AD and part of the frontier system of the Limes Alutanus.
The ruins of this cohort fort are located about two km east of the village Cincșor, commune Voila, and about one km north of the river Olt in the corridor "Burgstadt". In ancient times, it probably had the task of monitoring the movement of goods on the Olt and the Cincu Pass to the north.
During the archaeological excavations of the years 1974/1975 and 1979 to 1992, trenches were dug determining the location of the fort. Two construction phases could be distinguished: there was initially a wood-and-earth storage facility, which was later replaced by a stone fort. The stone fort had a rectangular ground plan and on the west side was a defensive wall and four ditches. The date is uncertain, but epigraphic finds could identify the Cohors II Flavia Bessorum as the stationed unit.
A funerary inscription for a Roman military official, L. Carvilius Rusticinus, was discovered near the fort.
In 1986 an excavator discovered a bronze parade mask nearby the fort, in the area of the reservoir lake. The mask depicts a woman's head. It has 24.5 cm height, 17 cm width and 14.5 cm depth.
The archaeological finds can be found in the Muzeul Țării Țării in Făgăraș and in Muzeul Județean Brașov in Brașov.
The archaeological site and in particular the fort are protected as historical monuments.
Roman castra from Romania - Google Maps / Earth Deprecated link archived 2012-12-05 at archive.today
ARCHAEOLOGICAL REPERTORY OF ROMANIA Archive Of The 'Vasile Parvan' Institute Of Archaeology - Site Location Index, page 10 Archived 2012-09-28 at the Wayback Machine
details?articleID=2948 MONUMENTE. Masca unui calaret roman
Fredrik Riseth (born 15 September 1995) is a Norwegian former cross-country skier.
His only outing in the 2015 Junior World Championships was the sprint, where he won the gold medal. He won his second gold medal at the 2017 Junior World Championships, this time in the U23 age class.
He made his World Cup debut in the Drammen sprint in March 2015, where he collected his first World Cup points with an 11th place. He repeated this placement in January 2018 in Dresden, and broke the top-ten for the first time in March 2018 in Drammen, where he finished seventh, again in the sprint. After he participated in only one World Cup competition during the 2019–20 season, Riseth retired from international skiing on 1 May 2020.
He represents the sports club Byåsen IL.
All results are sourced from the International Ski Federation (FIS).
Vasai-Virar is an agglomeration of four previously governed municipal councils: Vasai (Bassein), Virar, Nallasopara and Navghar-Manikpur, as well as a few towns to the East and West of the urban area. It lies in the Konkan division of Maharashtra, India.The twin city of Vasai-Virar is a part of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Mira-Bhayander, Vasai-Virar Police Commissionerate.
According to the 2011 census, it is the fifth largest city in Maharashtra. Located near Mumbai city, it lies in Palghar District, North of Vasai Creek and South of the Vaitarna River. Vasai-Virar is bordered by Mira-Bhayandar and Thane on its South and Southeast, Bhiwandi-Nizampur on its East and Palghar Rural district on its North.
Vasai-Virar has several train stations. On the Western Line, it has Naigaon, Vasai Road, Nallasopara, Virar and Vaitarna train stations, whereas on the Central Line it has Juchandra and Kaman Road stations.
Vasai-Virar, formerly Bassein or Vasai, is a city (municipal corporation) in western Maharashtra state, western India. It lies on the Arabian Sea coast, north of Mumbai (Bombay). Vasai town was part of the territory of the Hindu Devagiri Yadavas until 1317, and it later became a seaport for the Gujarat Muslim kings. In 1526, the Portuguese established a fort (now in ruins) and a trading station at Vasai, and the town became famous for its shipbuilding industry.
The Portuguese, with their naval power and their crusading valor, were unquestioned masters of the Indian Ocean. When the Portuguese arrived, Vasai was under the rule of Bahadur Shah, the Sultan of Gujarat.
On 23 December 1534, the Sultan of Gujarat, signed a treaty with the Portuguese and ceded Vasai, with its dependencies of Salsette, Mombaim (Bombay), Parel, Vadala, Siao (Sion), Vorli (Worli) (Worli fort photo), Mazagao (Mazgao), Thane, Bandra, Mahim, Caranja (Uran).
In 2009, the town was joined administratively with neighboring Virar (north) and several dozen other surrounding communities to form the Vasai-Virar twin city, and it immediately became one of the most-populous urban areas in the state. The city has long been a large-scale fishing centre and a wholesale exporter of agricultural produce. Traditional industries include silk and cotton hand-loom weaving and salt manufacture. There has been a rise in construction and in technology-related activities (e.g., software development).
Vasai-Virar has a tropical wet and dry climate (Köppen: Aw). This moderate climate consists of high rainfall days and very few days of extreme temperatures. 80% of total rainfall occurs between June and October. Annual rainfall averages 2,000–2,500 mm (79–98 in) and humidity is 61—86%, making it a humid-prehumid zone. The driest days are in winter, while the wettest days occur in July. In recent times, the area has become more flood prone due to rapid urbanization. The flooding, at times, cuts off the area from surrounding regions. Flooding has also affected transport, agriculture and industrial activities in the past.
As of the 2011 census official report, Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation had 291,229 households and a population of 1,222,390. 147,102 (12.03%) were under the age of 7. Vasai-Virar had a sex ratio of 886 females per 1000 males and a literacy rate of 88.57% for those 7 years and above. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes made up 50,983 (4.17%) and 57,490 (4.70%) of the population respectively.
The population of Vasai-Virar city comprises many different religions. Among them, Hinduism is practiced by 943,165 people which makes up to 78.05% of the total population, which is below the national average of 80.5%.
At the time of the 2011 Census of India, 46.49% of the population spoke Marathi, 26.58% Hindi, 9.26% Gujarati, 3.10% Bhojpuri, 2.72% Urdu, 1.78% Marwari, 1.53% Malayalam, 1.38% Bengali, 1.32% Konkani and 1.00% Kannada as their first language.
The Vasai–Virar urban town is governed by Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation. The town was formed in 2009 when it was joined administratively with Virar and other surrounding communities. Vasai-Virar city has been separated from Greater Mumbai and Mira-Bhayandar City because of presence of Vasai Creek. VVCMC is declared as ”C” Class Municipal Corporation.
Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation (VVMC) was formed on 3 July 2010. It is headed by a Municipal commissioner, Shri. Gangatharan D., an Indian Administrative Service officer. He wields the executive power. A quinquennial election is held to elect the governing body, who are responsible for overseeing that their constituencies have the basic civic infrastructure in place, and that there is no lacuna on the part of the authorities.
The position of mayor is a largely ceremonial post with limited duties but the office-holder heads the party with the largest vote. The current mayor of the city Shri. Narayan Mankar. The total number of electoral wards within the city jurisdiction is a 115.
According to financial data published on the CityFinance Portal of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, the Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation reported total revenue receipts of ₹1,308 crore (US$157 million) and total expenditure of ₹912 crore (US$110 million) in 2022–23. Tax revenue accounted for about 25.7% of the total revenue, while the corporation received ₹0.46 crore in grants during the financial year.
Public Transport: The VVMT uses diesel powered buses for its operation. All buses with electronic display board are introduced in the fleet, which have destination with the route number flashing in Marathi as well as English on front of the buses. The VVMT bus routes are spread city-wide and also to neighboring cities. The VVMT operates inter-city services to three different areas beyond the municipal limits of Vasai-Virar city, i.e. into the limits of the Municipal Corporations of the cities of Mira-Bhayandar, Thane, and Mumbai.
Digital Services: The VVMC website provides information on grocery shops, ration shops, medical shops, and community kitchen lists. The website also includes list of eye and blood banks in the city. The website also holds minutes of general body meeting since 2015.
Water Supply: Laying of water pipeline in the Coastal Regulation Zone III area of Kaman river has been approved for the Surya dam water project. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority is executing the 403 million litres daily project (MLD) that will bring an additional 54 MLD water supply to the Vasai-Virar region.
Citizen Engagement: A blog known as Vasai Virar Blog for local information is managed by few citizens and can be used by all. It provides information on various services provided in the city like ambulance service and their contact numbers, hospital location in the city and the nearest police station. In addition, information about schools and colleges in the area are also available.
The city is well connected to Mumbai by Western Railway and through Mumbai-Ahmedabad National Highway. The city is connected to Navi Mumbai, Thane, Bhiwandi, Kalyan and Panvel node of Navi Mumbai city by the Vasai-Diva Railway line. Vasai-Virar city has significant growth potential due to close proximity to city-proper Mumbai.
Vasai-Virar city is connected by the Western Railway and Central Railway. The major railway stations on the Western and Central Railway in Vasai–Virar city are:
Virar railway station (Western Railway): All Local, MEMU, Shuttle, very few Express trains but all Passenger Trains halt or depart from here.
Nala Sopara railway station (Western Railway): All Local & MEMU halt here.
Vasai Road railway station (Western/Central Railway): Vasai Road Railway Station is a Junction. All Local, MEMU, Shuttle, Express trains but only which are coming from Bhiwandi side and all Passenger Trains halt or Depart from here.
Naigaon railway station (Western Railway): All Local Trains halt here.
Juchandra railway station (Central Railways): All MEMU local halt here.
Kaman Road railway station (Central Railway): All MEMU local halt here.
Vasai-Virar City Municipal Corporation started its own transport service on 3 October 2012 in association with Bhagirathi Transport Corporation Pvt Ltd, known as VVMT. It operates a large number of bus lines in the Vasai-Virar city. VVMT also operates its buses in Vasai-Virar villages. It also has operation outside city limits into neighbouring city of Mira-Bhayandar, Thane, and Mumbai. VVMT bus ply from Vasai to Thane & Vasai to Mulund.
The VVMT bus routes are spread town-wide and also to neighboring towns and cities. The VVMT operates inter-city services to three different areas beyond the municipal limits of Vasai-Virar Town, i.e. into the limits of the Municipal Corporations of Mira-Bhayandar, Thane, and Mumbai.
Vasai-Virar City
The local bus services of the city, which are operated by VVMC. The internal places of Vasai-Virar city which are far from the Virar, Nala Sopara, Vasai Road, Naigaon Railway Stations are connected by VVMT. The major concentration has always been Vasai-Virar city and with vast growing population in the city.
Vasai-Virar Villages
It is not official, but some faraway villages from the Virar, Nala Sopara, and Vasai are connected by VVMT buses. VVMT services are not so frequent in villages as in the city.
Mira-Bhayandar City
Services start from Virar, Nala Sopara and Vasai Road Railway Stations and passes by Bhayandar via Ghodbunder Road. The inter city connection between the Vasai-Virar city (which on the western railway side) and (which is on the central railway side).
Thane City is connected to Vasai by the VVMT. From Vasai, it starts its services towards Thane. The inter city connection is between Vasai-Virar city (which is on the western railway side) and Thane City / Central Mumbai City (via Thane City) (which is on the central railway side).
Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) is the largest public transport provider in the Mumbai City & suburbs. VVMT connects the last station in Mumbai's suburb Mulund to the Vasai-Virar. The inter-city connection is between Vasai-Virar Town on the western railway side and Central Mumbai City on the central railway side.
Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation Marathon, formerly known as Vasai-Virar Mayor's Marathon is an annual marathon race organized in the Vasai-Virar area. It began in 2011 and in 2012 became a National Level running event, recognized by the AFI. The event sees participation in excess of 15,000 across various categories and offers prize money in excess of Rs 30 lakhs.
The Municipal Corporation has built an Olympic-size Swimming Pool in Vasai & Virar.
The Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation organises District level sports tournaments for various sports and Kala-Krida is a significant and popular annual event for Sports and Arts enthusiasts.
The Energy Services Union {of Ireland} (Aontas Oibrithe Fuinnimh {na hEireann} is a trade union representing workers at the ESB Group in Ireland. As of 2024 ESU is the last "in-house" trade union left in Ireland.
Until the late 1950s, most staff at the Electricity Supply Board (ESB) were represented by the Amalgamated Transport and General Workers' Union. In 1959, a strike among clerical staff at the ESB was unsuccessful, and this led the clerical section to found a new union, Electricity Supply Board Officers' Association (ESBOA). By the following year had a membership of 1,116, growing to 1,800 ten years later, and 3,005 in 1990. It affiliated to the Irish Congress of Trades Unions in 1976. David Begg became its general secretary in 1982, serving for three years.
By 2012, the union also had members working for Endesa, EirGrid and Airtricity, and as a result it renamed itself as the "Energy Services Union [of Ireland]".
1998-2002: Philomena Harrington
2002-06: John Nugent
2006-10: Dave Byrne
2010-13: Treasa Ni Mhurchú
2013-17: Ann Lynch
2017-21: Karen Halpenny
2021-25: Anthony Kelly
2025- : Karen Halpenny
1960: Franklin O'Sullivan
1964: N. Farrelly
1968: R. McElroy
1972: Louis Gillick
1975: Micheál Ó Foghlú
1978: John Mitchell
1982: David Begg
1991: Willie Cremins
2008: Tony Dunne
2010: Fran O'Neill
2024: Karan O'Loughlin
Konstantin Ivanovich Grigorishin (born 16 November 1965) is a Russian-Ukrainian businessman and billionaire. Business assets of Grigorishin, including energy, shipping and industrial machine-building companies, are mainly located in Ukraine. Grigorishin heads Energy Standard Group, which controls a number of enterprises in Zaporizhzhia and Ukrrichflot, as well as eight Ukrainian regional energy-distribution companies. He previously owned Sumy NPO, named after M.V. Frunze.
As of May, 2026, Ukraine is seeking an international arrest warrant for Grigorishin (Kostiantyn Hryhoryshyn), who is believed to be outside Ukraine.
Grigorishin was born in Zaporizhzhia in a family of engineers-constructors of aviation engines who worked the whole life at elite Soviet construction bureau “Progress”. In 1982 graduated from physical-mathematics school №28 in Zaporizhzhia and was accepted to Moscow Physical-Technical Institute (MFTI). Studied first on physical and quantum electronics faculty and then in a theoretical group named after Landau on the faculty of general and applied physics with the quarters at the Institute of Theoretical Physics at Chernogolovka town.
Upon graduation from MFTI in 1988 started to work at theoretical department of the Institute of Spectrography of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR in the city of Troitsk where in 1991 he passed PH.D defense on the topic “Light propagation in nonlinear unordered environments”.
In 1992 started to do business, establishing together with a few other graduates of MFTI his first company “AragornSoft”, which was developing system solutions in the sphere of IT-technologies. Starting from 1993 “Tsentralnaya Optovaya Metallobaza” company, established by the same partners, engaged in trading of ferrous material and ferro-alloys, soon becoming one of the biggest metal traders in the territory of CIS.
In 1995, having divided the business with former partners, together with a new partner established “Sozidanie” firm.
From 1996 to 2000, during big privatization campaign in Ukraine, Konstantin Grigorishin invested in controlling and material shareholdings of a number of metallurgic, industrial machine building, transport-logistics and energy distribution (so-called oblenergo) companies. Business assets of Grigorishin, including in energy, industrial machine building and transport-logistics sectors, mainly located in the territory of Ukraine. Grigorishin is the majority investor in established by him in 2005 Energy Standard Group, which indirectly owns material or controlling shareholdings in a number of enterprises in Zaporizhzhia and a couple of Ukrainian regional energy-distribution companies (oblenergo).
In 2007, Energy Standard Group acquired controlling shareholding in “Ukrrichflot” company.
In 2015 Russian authorities accused Grigorishin of evading taxes worth 675 million rubles, which he denies, and a criminal case against him was opened. Shortly after Grigorishin permanently moved back to Ukraine. In April 2016, a Russian court issued an arrest warrant for Grigorishin in absentia. Meanwhile Grigorishin acquired Ukrainian citizenship.
On 15 March 2016 applied for Ukrainian citizenship on “the territorial origin” principle – on the grounds of birth or permanent domicile in Ukraine before August 24, 1991, and was granted Ukrainian citizenship in May of the same year.
On 1 November 2018, Konstantin Grigorishin became one of 322 individuals against whom the sanctions were imposed by the Decree of the Government of the Russian Federation.
Grigorishin claimed in 2020 that 95% of his business is concentrated in Ukrainian assets. The main assets are in industrial machine-building, shipbuilding and energy distribution sectors [6] as well as transport-logistics company “Ukrrichflot”. In 2019, reports indicated that the ISL’s first edition was backed by an estimated US $20 million budget, financed by Grigorishin’s investment.
His assets in Ukraine were blocked on 19 January 2025 by a decree of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
In energy distribution Grigorishin has controlling shareholdings in Luhansk and Vinnytsia regional energy distribution companies, the rest six oblenergo in question (Zaporizhzhia, Poltava, Sumy, Chernihiv, Cherkasy (30%) and Ternopil) are controlled together with other shareholders, amongst which is Ihor Kolomoyskyi (starting from 2010 Poltava, Sumy and Chernihiv oblenergo were managed jointly with Kolomoyskiy. According to “Ekonomicheskaya Pravda”, in spring 2016 preparation to divide assets has started, upon results of which Kolomoyskiy will obtain Poltava oblenergo). From the beginning of 2000th indirectly owns investments in majority shareholdings of “Zaporozhtransformator” (monopolist in production of Ukrainian power transformers and reactors) and “Zaporozhskiy Kabelniy Zavod”.
According to Arseniy Yatsenyuk, Prime Minister of Ukraine in 2014–2015, Grogorishin controls Ukrainian energy sector. On January 20, 2016 on the Cabinet of Ministers session Yatsenyuk officially applied to the Security Service of Ukraine with a request to investigate connection of Grigorishin to financing of anti-Ukrainian political forces (including the Communist Party of Ukraine) and his cooperation with FSB. Grigorishin himself actively criticized Yatsenyuk whom he treated very negatively.
On 15 March 2016 applied for Ukrainian citizenship. The grounds for this were mentioned birth or permanent domicile in Ukraine before August 24, 1991.
As of autumn 2019, Grigorishin controlled:
Vinnitsaoblenergo (50%)
Zaporozhtransformator (100%)
“Zaporozhskiy Kabelniy Zavod” (100%)
Zaporozheoblenergo (in partnership with Ihor Kolomoyskiy, the latter has management control)
Poltavaoblenergo (in partnership with Igor Kolomoyskiy, the latter has management control)
Pidpryiemstvo “Kyiv”
Sumyoblenergo (in partnership with Igor Kolomoyskiy, Grigorishin has management control)
Ternopoloblenergo (in partnership with Kolomoyskiy, the latter has management control)
UkrRichFlot (100%)
Chernogovoblenergo (in partnership with Kolomoyskiy, Grigorishin has management control)
During election campaign for the 2002 Ukrainian parliamentary election the name of Konstantin Grigorishin was mentioned in connection with sponsorship of the political party and “Yabloko”. In the same time he was alleged to have financed the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine (united) (SDPU(o)). shareholding in “Ukrrichflot” company.
Grigorishin has also been considered as one of the sponsors of the 2004 Orange Revolution, although he denied it.
According to Grigorishin he has loaned $12 million to Arsen Avakov and Viktor Baloha, at the time both members of Our Ukraine–People's Self-Defense Bloc, to be used to finance their 2007 Ukrainian parliamentary election campaign.
In 2000th was named as one of key financiers of the Communist Party of Ukraine which he ceased to support in 2012. According to Grigorishin's own words, he supported the Communist Party of Ukraine because during the presidency of Viktor Yanukovych (2010-2014) "for political protection".
In 2014-2015 Konstantin Grogorishin actively criticized Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk whose work on said position he treated very negatively. In response, Arseniy Yatsenyuk on January 20, 2016 on the Cabinet of Minister's session accused Grigorishin of sabotage activities and work for foreign intelligence service.
On February 26, 2020 Pecherskiy District Court of Kyiv supported Konstantin Grigorishin's claim against the Cabinet of Ministers of Arseniy Yatsenyuk for defense of reputation and goodwill and refutation of false information. The Court ruled to refute false information spread by Yatsenyuk, which undermined reputation and goodwill of Grigorishin that “he is an example of those who steels funds from the budget and then finances anti-Ukrainian political forces and reports to FSB and is the agent of FSB”. The Court obliged former Prime Minister and the Cabinet of Ministers to refute circulated false information.
Konstantin Grigorishin, as all prominent businessmen of the end of 1990th – beginning of 2000th, suffered pressure from the side of political groups in power aimed to seize a share in his business. The main attacks here were done by Victor Pinchuk, the son-in-law of Leonid Kuchma, the President of Ukraine at the time being, by the group of Victor Medvedchuk – Ihor Surkis as well as by Ihor Kolomoyskyi.
During one of the attacks on his business in 2002, Grigorishin was arrested. That provocative act was discussed at the hearings in the House of Lords of the UK and covered in the speech of Viktor Yushenko, the leader of Ukrainian opposition at the time being, in Verkhovna Rada (the parliament of Ukraine). Grigorishin spent a week in detention and after then the charges were withdrawn. After being released, Grigorishin accused Surkis and Viktor Medvedchuk in organization of said provocative act. Being concerned about his and his family's safety, Grigorishin claimed he had to leave Ukraine and temporary moved to Moscow. According to Grigorishin's words, that all led to necessity, as a countermeasure to protect his business, to engage in politics and support opposition.
In December 2008 filed a claim to the High Court of Justice in London against Surkis and Valentin Zgurskiy, the shareholders of “Dynamo Kyiv” football club, regarding preemption right to buy 98% of shares in “Dynamo Kyiv” for 32 mln USD. According to Grigorishin, he was defrauded in 2004 when he was not allowed to exercise the right of preemption.
Under the court decision, Kolomoyskiy was ordered to pay Grigorishin 15 mln USD.
In 2008 the Security Service of Ukraine prohibited Grigorishin to enter the country for five years in connection with organization of “raider” (hostile takeover) attacks on Turboatom company. In June 2009, Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal upheld the decision of the court of the first instance, which recognized the actions of the Security Service as unlawful.
In 2009 filed a lawsuit to invalidate the agreement on sale in 2006 of 61% shares in “UNTK” company, which controls broadcasting licence of Inter TV-channel. On 26 February the Commercial Court of Kyiv ordered to arrest the shares of the TV-channel and demanded the Ministry of Interior and General Prosecutor of Ukraine's Office to investigate the circumstances of death of Ihor Pluzhnikov, the former owner of the TV-channel, and subsequent sale of controlling block of shares in December 2009 to the companies of Valeriy Khoroshkovskyi. That lawsuit was treated as one of confrontation acts between Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko and businessman Dmytro Firtash.
On April 13, 2016 at the hearing at the Moscow City Court, the investigator announced that Konstantin Grigorishin had been put on the wanted list in connection with tax evasion case for 675 mln RUB. The prosecution believes that Grigorishin together with his partner have not paid taxes for 675 934 000 RUB, and, therefore, inflicted damage to the state budget in the same amount.
On May 9, 2016, the London Court of International Arbitration decided in favor of Vadim Novinskiy and Vladimir Lukyanenko, minority shareholders of Sumy NPO named after M.V. Frunze, against the majority shareholder, Konstantin Grigorishin. According to arbitration award, Grigorishin had breached shareholders’ agreement and, therefore, is obliged to pay the plaintiffs more than 300 mln USD. Until the end of 2018 the arbitration decision was not abided, in summer 2019 Grigorishin and Lukyanenko signed the settlement agreement, under which the debt was satisfied by transfer of 29% shares in Kharkivoblenergo and Kharkivenergosbut as well as of the controlling shareholding (more than 50%+1 share) in Sumy NPO named after M.V. Frunze. In December 2019, the deal was closed.
In August 2016 some Khasan Ediev (native-born of Dzhalka village of Gudermes district of Chechnya, whose monthly income according to filed tax returns varied from 20 to 100 thousand RUB) filed a claim to the District Court of Gudermes against Konstantin Grigorishin for repayment of principal debt, accrued interest and sanctions under the loan agreement.
It went about 110 mln USD in cash in hand which Khasan Ediev allegedly provided to Konstantin Grigorishin, and which the latter has not returned. On 10 November 2016, the District Court of Gudermes awarded Grigorishin to pay 230 mln USD. Subsequently, in October 2017 this decision was upheld by the order of the High Court of Chechen Republic, after which enforcement proceedings were commenced. In December 2017, bailiffs accompanied by the representatives of Khasan Ediev arrived at apartments and house in Moscow owned by Konstantin Grigorishin with the aim to organize eviction of said real estate and movable property located there. Moreover, the bailiffs subsequently arrested that real estate, already arrested in course of criminal case against Grigorishin.
In 2012 “Forbes” magazine estimated Grigorishin's wealth at US$1.2 billion, in 2011 – at US$1.3 billion, in 2013 – at US$1.814 billion.
In its turn, Ukrainian magazine “Focus” in 2012 estimated total value of assets owned by Grigorishin at US$2.019 billion (7th place in the list of wealthiest Ukrainians), in 2015 – at US$920 million (6th place).
Since 1993, Konstantin Grigorishin is engaged in art collection, since 2004 on permanent basis his art collection is managed by Olga Vaschilina. By 2012, he owned 238 oil on canvas paintings and about 500 pages of graphics. Today part of his Russian collection is seized by the court.
Main sport activity of Grigorishin is swimming, where he qualified as a master at international class. In 2012, he established the Energy Standard Swim Club, where he holds the position of President. In 2013, Energy Standard Group became a sponsor of Ukrainian Swimming Federation and created prize money fund for the swimmers for upcoming World Cup. In 2018, established International Swimming League, in the first season of which world's top-tier swimmers competed in eight teams (four European and four North American). Grigorishin has stated that one of the ISL’s core goals is “putting power back into the hands of the athletes.” He also explained that the league enforces a strict anti-doping policy, under which swimmers with prior doping suspensions are not permitted to compete. Over a decade before launching the International Swimming League (ISL), Grigorishin had already been personally involved in swimming, reportedly organising training camps and competitions. He later formalised this involvement by establishing the Energy Standard Swim Club, where he serves as president. In January 2026, the International Swimming League won a U.S. jury verdict in its antitrust litigation against World Aquatics (formerly known as FINA).
In June 2010, Grigorishin became an investor for upcoming season for “PFC Sumy” football club at the time playing in the Ukrainian Second League and paid up club's debts of ₴640 thousand. In February 2011, “Yuvileiny Stadium” in Sumy was purchased for ₴10 million where the club was based.
In 2020, acted as organizer for International Institute of Political Philosophy.
Married (wife – Natalia Yakos), has three children – daughter Evgenia (born 1988), son Ivan (born 1998), son Georgiy (born 2010) .
Citizen of Cyprus, the Russian Federation and Ukraine (from 2016)
Cyprus citizenship revoked (2 Jul 2024)
Grigorishin was married to Oksana Grigorishina, with three children and his residence was Moscow, Russia. After Grigorishin gained Ukrainian citizenship in 2016 he resides in Kyiv,
Ukraine. He is currently divorced. Grigorishin has a son and a daughter. His son Ivan played six times for the California Golden Bears, the team of the University of California, Berkeley.
2017, it was reported in The Guardian that Grigorishin had acquired Cypriot citizenship in 2010 through a "Golden visa" scheme.
Bicyclus vulgaris, the vulgar bush brown, is a butterfly in the family Nymphalidae. It is found in Senegal, the Gambia, Mali, Guinea-Bissau, Guinea, Burkina Faso, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Ivory Coast, Ghana, Togo, Benin, Nigeria, Cameroon, the Republic of the Congo, Angola, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Uganda, Ethiopia, western Kenya, Tanzania and north-western Zambia. The habitat consists of forests (including pre-forest and riparian forest), dense savanna, the edges of farmland, woodland and marshy areas.
The larvae feed on Poaceae species.
Longstaff is a surname, and may refer to:
Abie Longstaff, Australian children's book author
Bert Longstaff (1885–1970), English football player for Brighton & Hove Albion
David Longstaff (born 1974), British ice hockey player and father of Matty and Sean
Ellis Longstaff (born 2002), rugby league footballer
Francis Longstaff (born 1956), American educator
Fred Longstaff (c. 1890–1916), English rugby league footballer
Frederick Longstaff (1879–1961), Anglo-Canadian soldier, architect, and mountaineer
George Longstaff (c. 1947–2003), British bicycle and tricycle builder
George Blundell Longstaff (1849–1921), British civil activist
George W. Longstaff (1850–1901), American architect
Jane Longstaff (1855–1935), British malacologist
Sir John Longstaff (1861–1941), Australian painter and war artist
Johnny Longstaff (fl. 1930s), English anti-fascist activist
Josh Longstaff (born 1982), American basketball coach
Llewellyn W. Longstaff (1841–1918), English industrialist
Luis Longstaff (born 2001), English footballer
Marion L. Longstaff (1904–1984), American politician
Matty Longstaff (born 2000), English footballer and son of David Longstaff
Moorea Longstaff, Canadian para-swimmer
Ronald Earl Longstaff (born 1941), United States federal judge
Sean Longstaff (born 1997), English footballer, son of David Longstaff
Shaun Longstaff (born 1972), rugby union player for Scotland
Suzie Longstaff, (born 1969), British teacher and rower
Tom Longstaff, (1875–1964 ), English doctor, explorer and mountaineer
Captain Will Longstaff (1879–1953), Australian painter and war artist
Longstaff Peaks, Antarctica
various weapons including the Gun used in Chinese martial arts
All pages with titles containing Longstaff
Langstaff (disambiguation)
Mullen Bridge is an old bridge crossing the Royal Canal in Maynooth in County Kildare, Ireland. It was built between 1790 and 1800.
The bridge used to carry the main R406 road leading south out of the town across the canal and a railway line. In the late 1980s/early 1990s a new bridge was built alongside it to cater for the increased traffic on the route. The old bridge was left standing after the works were complete, although the newer, second arch over the railway line was removed due to space constraints. It would also have been too low to allow electrification of the train line below without the line being dug down.
The 2000 NCAA Division II softball tournament was the 19th annual postseason tournament hosted by the NCAA to determine the national champion of softball among its Division II members in the United States, held at the end of the 2000 NCAA Division II softball season.
The final, eight-team double elimination tournament, also known as the Division II Women's College World Series, was played at the South Commons Softball Complex in Columbus, Georgia.
Emerging from the winner's bracket, North Dakota State defeated Kennesaw State in a single game championship series, 3–1, to capture the Bison's first Division II national title.
Liza Pepper, 1B, Bloomsburg
Tanya Heath, 2B, Bloomsburg
Nikki Flynn-Gregg, SS, North Dakota State
Christine Hochdorfer, 3B, Kennesaw State
Michelle Wiest, OF, North Dakota State
Sheryl Marshall, OF, Merrimack
Shyamala White, OF, UC Davis
Julie Fromm, P, North Dakota State
Lacey Gardner, P, Kennesaw State
Melanie Anderson, C, Bloomsburg
Gerice Olson, DP, North Dakota State
Audra Thomas, AL, Kennesaw State
Seeley Bair, AL, UC Davis
2000 NCAA Division I softball tournament
2000 NCAA Division III softball tournament
2000 NAIA softball tournament
2000 NCAA Division II baseball tournament
The Littoral Banovina or Littoral Banate (Croatian: Primorska banovina; Serbian: Приморска бановина / Primorska banovina), was a province (banovina) of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia between 1929 and 1939. This province consisted of much of the Croatian region of Dalmatia and parts of present-day Bosnia and Herzegovina and was named for its coastal (maritime) location. The capital city of the Littoral Banovina was Split.
According to the 1931 Constitution of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia,
The Littoral Banovina is bounded on the north by the southern boundaries already drawn of the Sava and Vrbas Banovinas as far as the intersection of the limits of the three districts of Jajce, Bugojno, and Travnik (Rakovce, hill 1217). From this point the boundary of the Banovina follows the eastern border of the district of Bugojno, then the northern boundary of the district of Konjic, to continue along the eastern boundary of the districts of Konjic and Mostar up to the intersection of the boundaries of the districts of Mostar, Stolac, and Nevesinje. It then continues along the eastern boundary of the district of Stolac, which it includes. On the Adriatic, the boundary of the Banovina passes through the Neretva and Pelješac channels to join the maritime frontier of the State.
In 1939, the Littoral Banovina was merged with the Sava Banovina and parts of neighboring provinces to create the Banovina of Croatia.
In 1941, the World War II Axis powers occupied the former area of the Littoral Banovina. Coastal areas from Split to Zadar were annexed by Fascist Italy with the remainder becoming a part of the Independent State of Croatia. Following World War II, the region was divided between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina within a federal Communist Yugoslavia.
Ivo Tartaglia (1929–1932)
Josip Jablanović (1932–1935)
Mirko Buić (1935–1939)
Administrative divisions of Yugoslavia
Banovina Palace (Split)
The Constitution of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia
His Nose in the Book (also known as The Texas Kid) is a 1920 American short silent Western film directed by B. Reeves Eason and featuring Hoot Gibson.
According to the copyright description, "Pop Carson had a very fine ranch and it was going along smoothly but Pop was much more interested in his books than he was in being the management of the ranch. Nothing but the wildest melodrama and detective stories satisfied Pop and when he got his nose in a book of this kind, an earthquake would not shake it out again.
Bobby his six year old son was an imp of mischief who took every advantage of his father’s literary preoccupation to play pranks on him. If it had not been for Mrs. Carson, Pop would have forgotten even to draw the monthly pay for the payroll. Ramirez was the leader of a small band of desperadoes who were fearful of their skins to work in the open but who were ready for any desperate capers that did not look too dangerous. Seeing the big wad of money which Carson was carrying home, they decided to annex it in some manner and Carson had no sooner reached home than one of the desperadoes stole little Bobby and left a note that he would be held at a certain cabin for ransom, the ransom mentioned being approximately the size of the payroll.
Bobby was left to play with an old Indian in the cabin while the desperadoes stationed themselves to watch the approach of Carson whom they had warned to come alone. He came, and after he had been blindfolded, was taken to the cabin but to his astonishment and to the dismay of the desperadoes, little Bobby was no-wheres to be seen. He had wandered out into the desert alone. The shock to the men was so great that Carson got the drop on them and tied them up. Then he and his wife, who had in the meantime appeared on the scene, and the old Indian, following separate trails, started out, and after an all day’s search found little Bobby and all was well."
Hoot Gibson as Pop Carson
Mildred Moore as Mrs. Carson
B. Reeves Eason Jr. as Bobby Carson
George Field as Ramirez
Tom London credited as Leonard Clapham
Hoot Gibson filmography
His Nose in the Book at IMDb
Kim Sterling Cameron (born 1946) is the William Russell Kelly Professor of Management and Organizations at the Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan. He was formerly the dean of the Weatherhead School of Management at Case Western Reserve University. He has also served as associate dean at both the Marriott School of Management at Brigham Young University (BYU) and in the Ross School of Business.
He graduated from Brigham Young High School in Provo, Utah in 1964. He received a bachelor's degree (1970) and a master's degree (1971) from BYU. At BYU, he served as student body vice president, was a basketball player, and dated Ann Davies (who later married Mitt Romney). He later went on to earn a master's degree (1976) and a Ph.D. (1978) in administrative sciences from Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut.
After earning a master's degree at BYU, Cameron became a faculty member at Ricks College in Rexburg, Idaho. After earning his degrees at Yale University, he served on the faculty in the School of Business at the University of Wisconsin in Madison, then directed the Organizational Studies division of the National Center for Higher Education Management Systems in Boulder, Colorado. He joined the faculty in the Graduate School of Business at the University of Michigan in 1984.
In 1995, Cameron was appointed associate dean in the Marriott School of Management at BYU, and in 1998 he was appointed dean of the Weatherhead School of Management at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio. In 2001, he rejoined the faculty in the Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan and served as an associate dean.
He has written or edited 15 scholarly books and been published in more than 130 academic articles. He was cited as one of the top ten scholars in organizational studies whose work has been downloaded from Google.
Cameron co-founded the Center for Positive Organizational Scholarship at the University of Michigan, and his work in conjunction with the center was recognized as one of the top 20 high-impact ideas of 2004 by Harvard Business Review.
Among other ideas, Cameron advanced the notion that downsizing is usually not an effective business strategy because of the ways it is implemented. Cameron's latest scholarly work on Positive Leadership and on developing organizational cultures of abundance reports empirical research demonstrating that positive leadership and virtuous practices in organizations lead to extraordinary performance.
Cameron is married to Melinda Cummings, daughter of Hollywood actor Robert Cummings. They are parents of seven children.
Cameron is an active member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. He wrote several articles for the Encyclopedia of Mormonism and served as president of the church's Ann Arbor Michigan Stake. Since 2001, he has served as the patriarch in the Ann Arbor stake.
University of Michigan faculty biography
Kim S. Cameron biography at Brigham Young Academy & Brigham Young University High School
Sean Welch (born 12 April 1965, Enfield, England) is an English musician who was the bassist for The Beautiful South and previously roadie for The Housemartins.
Cindy Smart is a brand of doll manufactured by Manley Toy Quest. Introduced in 2002, Cindy Smart was the first doll that could see, capable of reading words in five languages, do basic math, and could tell time. The doll was first sold in the United States, and then in Australia beginning in 2003.
Cindy Smart has the appearance of a standard female doll. The doll is 18.5 inches (47.0 cm) tall with blonde hair and blue eyes, and is intended to appear five years of age. Cindy Smart differs from other dolls because of her extra equipment, which includes: a digital camera in the doll's torso, a 16-bit microprocessor in the stomach, and voice-recognition software. The camera makes Cindy Smart the first doll that can see.
When someone speaks to Cindy Smart, the software attempts to match the speech to one of 70 preprogrammed commands. If the command calls for reading, the digital camera searches for text in a 15-degree sector in front of it. The microprocessors compare the text with a database of words. The doll then gives the word and its spelling aloud, unless the word is an expletive. The doll can recognize 650 English words, as well as some French, German, Italian, and Spanish words. The doll can also do basic math, recognize shapes and colors, and tell time.
Toymaker Bob Del Principe spent 10 years working on Cindy Smart. He completed the doll in 2002, when he was Vice President for Research and Development at a Los Angeles subsidiary of Manley Toy Quest, a Hong Kong–based toy manufacturing company. The doll was first sold in the United States for US$99, with a number of sales coming through the Home Shopping Network.
Manley Toy Quest expanded sales to Australia beginning on 19 August 2003 with a launch event at a Myer department store in Melbourne. The Australian version uses Commonwealth spelling and says "Mum" instead of the American "Mom", but otherwise retains her American English dialect. The doll first sold for AU$149 in Australia.
Several news outlets, including The New York Times and Wired, compared Cindy Smart to Chatty Cathy, which was the first talking doll and influential in the toy business. Wired and The Sydney Morning Herald also compared Cindy Smart to I-Cybie, the first widely available toy to accept voice commands. Time named Cindy Smart to its list of the 42 best inventions of 2002, praising her technical capabilities but calling her "a little creepy". Wired also called her "a little creepy".
Cindy Smart was a modest financial success. The Australian Financial Review named it a "must-have" for Christmas 2003.
Tekno the Robotic Puppy
Andre Michael Berto (born September 7, 1983) is a professional boxer who holds dual Haitian and American citizenship. A two-time former welterweight world champion, he held the WBC and IBF titles between 2008 and 2011, and the WBA interim title in 2015. As an amateur, he won the National Golden Gloves tournament in 2001 (at light middleweight) and 2003 (welterweight), and would represent the U.S. at the 2003 World Championships, winning a welterweight bronze medal. He also represented Haiti at the 2004 Olympics, reaching the opening round of the welterweight bracket.
Throughout his career, Berto was known for his toughness, formidable punching power, and fast hand speed. In the late 2000s he was considered a rising star in the welterweight division, as well as a highly regarded young prospect in boxing. He reached the peak of his career in 2011, holding the WBC welterweight title which he had won in 2008 and made five defenses, and was ranked as the world's third best welterweight, behind then-top stars Manny Pacquiao and Floyd Mayweather Jr.
Berto's success was cut short after his first career loss to Victor Ortiz in 2011, which won Fight of the Year honors by The Ring magazine. Afterwards, Berto's career fluctuated: from 2012 to 2015 he lost a further three times, but bounced back in 2016 with a win over Ortiz in a rematch.
The son of Haitian immigrants, Berto was one of seven children born and raised in Winter Haven, Florida. Multiple members of the Berto family would become involved in combat sports. Andre's sister Revelina and brother James are both professional mixed martial artists. Their father Dieuseul is a retired professional kickboxer who competed at UFC 10. Andre was introduced to boxing by his father after getting beat up multiple times by classmates. Dieuseul taught the sport to Berto at his own school in Winter Haven called Tiger's World. For Berto, the sport of boxing became a solace to stay out of trouble in the rough community in which he grew up.
As an amateur, Berto won a bronze medal in the 2003 World championships. He was also a two-time U.S. National Golden Gloves champion, a two-time National PAL champion, a three-time U.S. amateur championship medalist, and won 22 state titles in Florida. Prior to the 2003 World championships, Berto defeated future world title challenger Andre Dirrell, and future three-weight world champion Timothy Bradley twice.
Berto was an odds-on favorite to breeze through the 2004 Olympic Trials and qualify as a member of the US Olympic boxing squad. Those dreams were dashed in the opening round of the trials, when he was disqualified for throwing Juan McPherson to the canvas. Berto was winning the fight, before McPherson bumped into him before being pushed to the canvas, and was deemed in no condition to continue. The act was ruled a flagrant foul, and Berto was disqualified. A protest was ruled in his favor, as he was declared the winner and advanced to the next round. Berto won that bout as well and prepared for the finals before a follow-up meeting the night before reverted to the initial ruling, eliminating Berto from the tournament. Because his parents emigrated from Haiti, Berto was able to keep his Olympic hopes alive, qualifying for Team Haiti, and subsequently granted Haitian citizenship alongside his American nationality, an exception the island country awarded the Olympian. Berto lost in the first-round to Xavier Noel of France.
From December 2004 to October 2006, Berto won 15 fights, with 13 coming by way of knockout. On December 12, 2006, at the Alltel Arena in North Little Rock, Arkansas, Berto stepped up in competition and fought Miguel Figueroa. Berto put together a one-sided destruction of Figueroa, eventually forcing the referee to stop the fight in round six. He was named ESPN.com's 2006 Prospect of the Year. His next fight took place on February 17, 2007, at the Hammerstein Ballroom in New York City, against Norberto Bravo of The Contender. Berto defeated Bravo by first-round technical knockout after Bravo was knocked down three times, triggering the three knockdown rule. On May 19, 2007, Berto defeated Martinus Clay by seventh-round technical knockout.
On July 27, 2007, at the City Center in Saratoga Springs, New York. Berto fought Cosme Rivera. Berto was in full control until he was down for the first time in his career in round six. He was able to recover and open up a bad cut over Rivera's right eye in the seventh round. Rivera stood his ground in the remaining rounds to test Berto, but Berto won by unanimous decision.
On September 29, 2007, at Boardwalk Hall in Atlantic City, New Jersey, Berto defeated David Estrada by eleventh-round technical knockout to win the NABF welterweight title. Rounds three and eight were described by BoxingScene.com as "round of the year" candidates as both men went toe-to-toe with flush power shots. The end came when Berto dropped Estrada with an uppercut that was followed up by a huge right hand. Estrada made it to his feet, but could not defend himself as Berto attacked with more damaging shots that prompted the referee to jump in and stop the fight.
On February 9, 2008, at the Pechanga Resort & Casino in Temecula, California, Berto fought Michael Trabant in his first defense of the NABF welterweight title. Trabant stayed on the defensive for the entire fight with Berto landing a variety of punches from all angles. In the fifth and sixth rounds, Trabant was barely able to land a single punch, as he was frequently taking punches to the head. Trabant told the referee after round six that he was no longer willing to continue with the fight. It was the first time that Trabant had ever been stopped.
On June 21, 2008, Berto captured the vacant WBC welterweight title left vacant by Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeating Miguel Rodriguez in the seventh round by technical knockout at the FedEx Forum in Memphis, Tennessee. Berto knocked Rodriguez down twice in the seventh round, before the referee stopped the bout with 47 seconds left as Berto continually hurt Rodriguez with right hands.
Berto's first title defense of the WBC welterweight title occurred on September 28, 2008, at the Home Depot Center in Carson, California, against Steve Forbes. Berto consistently outpunched Forbes throughout winning the fight by unanimous decision with scores of 118–109 on two of the scorecards and 116–111 on the third scorecard.
Berto made the second defense of his title on January 17, 2009, at the Beau Rivage in Biloxi, Mississippi, against former WBA welterweight champion Luis Collazo. Berto got off to a rough start as he was hurt in the first round and had a point deducted in the fourth round for holding Collazo's arm. In round seven, Berto opened a cut over the left eye of Collazo. Berto won the fight by a controversial unanimous decision with scores of 114–113 on two of the scorecards and 116–111 on the third scorecard in a fight which most thought Collazo might have won.
On Saturday, May 30, 2009, Berto defended his WBC welterweight title against former IBF light welterweight champion Juan Urango and won a lopsided unanimous decision setting up a fight with Shane Mosley.
Berto was to defend his title against "Sugar" Shane Mosley for a WBC, WBA welterweight title unification bout on January 30, 2010. However, Berto announced that he was withdrawing from his title unification bout against Mosley on January 18, 2010, due to family loss in the Haiti earthquake. With Mosley subsequently landing a bout with Floyd Mayweather Jr., Berto faced former WBO welterweight champion Carlos Quintana on April 10, 2010, in the beginning Quintana outboxed Berto but eventually Berto's speed and power began to overwhelm Quintana and eventually won by an eighth round Technical knockout, despite injuring his left bicep during the fight.
On November 27, 2010, Berto scored a TKO victory over Freddy Hernández. Berto successfully defended his WBC welterweight title, stopping an overmatched Freddy Hernandez at 2:07 of the first round putting himself in line for a shot at Floyd Mayweather Jr. He hammered Hernandez with a left hook, then floored him with a straight right during the co-feature fight of the Juan Manuel Márquez-Michael Katsidis lightweight championship bout.
On April 16, 2011, Berto's reign as WBC welterweight champion came to an abrupt end in a fight which proved to be one of the biggest upsets of 2011 at the hands of a moving up in weight form 140 "Vicious" Victor Ortíz. Ortiz defeated Berto by unanimous decision in a fight that was named The Ring magazine's "Fight of the Year" for 2011 with 4 ruled knockdowns going into the fight Berto was undefeated but was facing complaints of being unproven at the highest level and a lack of notable, quality opposition on his record of 27–0–21 Knockouts and the loss stopped him from landing a bout with Floyd Mayweather Jr.
On September 3, 2011, Berto returned after his defeat to Victor Ortíz to face IBF welterweight champion and Ring Top 10 welterweight Dejan Zavec. After 5 rounds of a closely competitive fight, Zaveck's corner stopped the fight as he had been cut. The two men embraced and Berto thanked the Slovenian fans for traveling over to America to cheer their countryman on. Berto called his performance "so-so", becoming a two-time world champion and the new IBF welterweight champion.
Berto relinquished his IBF welterweight title rather than face mandatory challenger Randall Bailey in order to facilitate the rematch with Ortiz because he wanted the opportunity to avenge his only defeat (at the time).
After testing positive for a banned substance, the rematch against Ortiz planned for June 23, 2012, was cancelled. It has since been ruled that Berto's positive test was the result of contamination, and Berto regained his boxing license. Josesito Lopez replaced Berto and fought Ortiz on the scheduled date at the Staples Center in Los Angeles. Lopez stopped Ortiz after 9 rounds claiming the vacant WBC silver welterweight title.
Berto's next fight was scheduled for November 24, 2012, in Ontario, California. The opponent was Ring Top 10 welterweight and WBC Interim welterweight champion Robert Guerrero. Berto was knocked down twice early in the fight but came back well to give Guerrero a tough scrap, but Guerrero managed to narrowly maintain control and won via unanimous decision. Both of Berto's eyes and Guerrero's right eye were closed shut by the end of the fight.
Following an 8-month lay-off after losing to Guerrero, Berto eventually returned to the ring to face Jesús Soto Karass on July 27, 2013, at the AT&T Center in San Antonio. In a tough, entertaining back-and-forth fight, Berto lost via TKO in the twelfth round after having put Soto Karass on the canvas in the previous round. At the time of the stoppage, one judge had Berto ahead in the fight 105–103, one had him behind in the fight 103–105, and the other judge had the fight even 104–104.
On August 19, 2014, after a 14-month lay-off following consecutive defeats where he used most of that time nursing his injured shoulder, it was announced that Berto would fight journeyman Steve Upsher Chambers (24-3-1, 6 KO) on September 6 on Showtime in a 10-round bout, a day before his 31st birthday. Virgil Hunter trained Berto for the first time since announcing their partnership. Berto was going into this fight having not won since 2011. Chambers was going into the fight on a 2-fight losing streak. The fight took place at the U.S. Bank Arena, in Cincinnati, Ohio, on the Adrien Broner vs. Emmanuel Taylor card. Berto won the fight via unanimous decision with all three judges scoring the fight 99–91, giving Chambers only one round. Berto landed jabs often throughout the fight gaining confidence with right uppercuts and straight right hands to Chambers' head. Chambers did let his hands go in some rounds unloading flurrie but never took control of the fight as Berto seemed to be more comfortable with the pace of the fight.
On January 22, 2015, it was announced that Berto would fight Josesito López (33–6, 19 KOs) on March 13, as part of the new Premier Boxing Champions series on Spike TV. The fight took place at the Citizens Business Bank Arena in Ontario, California. The interim WBA welterweight title was at stake. Berto won the fight via TKO in round 6 to claim the vacant title. In an evenly matched fight, both fighters went back and forth the first 5 rounds. Lopez was the busier fighter landing solid punches, while Berto landed sharp Jabs and some hard rights hand. By the end of round 5, Lopez face was cut and bruised. In round 6, Berto landed 3 hard right hands in that dropped Lopez. He beat the count, another right hand put Lopez down again causing the referee to stop the fight at 1 minute and 3 seconds. Berto was booed following the win due to the fight taking place in Lopez's home state. Lopez won most of the early rounds after working on Berto's body. At the time of stoppage, one judge had Berto ahead 48–47, while the other two judges had it 50–45 and 48–47 in favor of Lopez.
On August 4, 2015, it was announced that, after months of speculation, a bout between Berto and Floyd Mayweather Jr. in Las Vegas would indeed take place on September 12, 2015.
Mayweather was able to pinpoint holes in Berto's guard and find a home for the jab early. He landed sharp counters and feint hooks while controlling range for the vast majority of the bout. Berto pushed the pace, but his aggressiveness fell short as Mayweather was highly mobile and closed the distance consistently. Mayweather hurt his left hand at the end of the ninth round but remained comfortable throughout the rest of the fight, winning via unanimous decision 117–111, 118–110, and 120–108. Mayweather dominated the fight, landing an impressive 56% [232/410] punches thrown, compared to Berto's underwhelming number of 17% [83/495] punches landed. Mayweather earned a purse of $32 million and Berto earned a career-high $4 million.
Early industry sources reported the fight drew 550,000 buys. Later sources indicated the number could have been as low as 400,000 buys, generating $28 million. This was the lowest number of buys Floyd had generated in over 10 years. The fight also gathered a crowd of 13,395, also a decreased figure compared to Mayweather previous fights.
Five years after their first slugfest, Berto and Victor Ortíz finally met in a rematch on April 30, 2016, at the StubHub Center in Carson, California. Berto was down once in the 2nd round but was able to beat the count and subsequently came on strongly in round 4. Ortiz went down twice in the 4th round and although he was able to beat both counts, he didn't answer to referee Jack Reiss when asked if he wanted to continue. The bout would be called at the 1:44 mark. Berto stated afterwards that he would be willing to face Ortiz in a rubber match before then going on to call out WBC champion Danny Garcia.
On February 13, 2017, it was announced that a deal was close to being made between Berto and former welterweight world champion Shawn Porter (26-2-1, 16 KOs). On March 5, it was officially confirmed the fight would take place on April 22, 2017, at the Barclays Center in New York City with CBS confirming Showtime would televise the bout. Halfway through the press conference, promoter Lou DiBella confessed that he received a phone call from WBC president Mauricio Sulaiman and he reported the fight would be a final eliminator. On March 4, Keith Thurman defeated Danny Garcia to become the new WBA and WBC unified welterweight champion.
In front of 9,118, Berto failed to earn a world title fight when he was dropped and stopped in round 9. Berto suffered his fifth defeat in his last nine fights. Porter used power shots to the body of Berto to wear him down over the rounds. Berto was dropped in round 2, the same round Porter suffered a bad cut from clash of heads. After round 4, Porter was cut above both eyes and Berto was cut above the left eye, all due to clash of heads. At the time of stoppage, Porter was ahead on all scorecards, 79–72 and 78–74 (twice). Porter was the busier fighter, landing 175 of 448 punches thrown, whilst Berto landed 81 of 254 thrown (32%). Many experts called the fight dirty due to constant clash of heads and blood pouring from both fighters. Berto said, "I have to give him credit, but he's a rough fighter. He has great skills, but at the same time, he's going to be rough and try to handle me any way he can. I got a lot of head butts, and he did, too. Shawn is a tough competitor. We had a good, competitive fight until the head butts got to be a little too much for me. But I thought it was a really good fight before that."
Porter earned $1 million whilst Berto got the higher amount of $1.2 million for the fight. The fight averaged 468,000 viewers on Showtime.
ESPN's Dan Rafael announced on April 28, 2018, that a deal had been reached for Berto to fight former 2-weight world champion Devon Alexander (27-4-1, 14 KOs) on the Errol Spence Jr. vs. Carlos Ocampo undercard on June 16 at The Ford Center at The Star in Frisco, Texas, however the fight did not take place. On June 25, the fight was slated to take place on the Mikey Garcia vs. Robert Easter Jr. lightweight unification card at the Staples Center on July 28 on Showtime. The fight would instead main event its own card on August 4 at the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum in Uniondale, New York, on Fox. Berto was dropped earlier on but rallied on in the second half of the fight to win a controversial split decision. One judge scored the bout 114–113 for Alexander, but the remaining two judges overruled, both scoring 115–112 in favor of Berto, giving him the win. Alexander had the better workrate of the two in the opening rounds and dropped Berto in round 3 after catching him with a left hand to the head. Replays showed the two shots landed on the back of Berto's head. The knockdown stood because Berto had rotated his head before the punches landed. Alexander began to tire around midway and Berto started taking over. In round 7, after trading on the inside, Berto suffered a cut near his right eye. Berto was at his best in round 12 using both hands. Alexander fought back and both boxers traded close as the fight came to an end. Websites, Boxing Scene and BadLeftHook had Alexander the winner and felt although Berto caught up in the later rounds, he did not do enough to win the fight. Alexander thought the fight was close, but should have taken the decision. Berto stated he was not interested in a rematch as he was at the point in his career where he only wanted paydays. The fight averaged 1,193,000 viewers and peaked at 1,266,000 viewers.
On November 6, 2023, Berto revealed that he was fighting Robert Guerrero (37-6-1, 20 KOs) in a rematch, possibly on Benavidez vs Andrade undercard on November 25. It was never confirmed, however on December 9, a press release announced the rematch would instead take place on December 16 on a Premier Boxing Champions card from The Armory in Minneapolis on Showtime. It was also scheduled to be the final Showtime Championship Boxing card, as Showtime bowed out of boxing after 37 years. Berto was looking to avenge his defeat from November 2012, when he lost a unanimous decision. The fight was scheduled for 10 rounds. Berto weighed 148¼ pounds and Guerrero weight the same. The result was the same as the first meeting with Guerrero winning via a unanimous decision. Guerrero used the same tactics as the first bout, frequently holding and using mauling tactics. Berto was dropped in the fifth round, only for referee Robert Hoyle to rule it a push. Hoyle was busy throughout the fight, constantly breaking up clinches. The three judges scored it 99-91, 98-92, 98-92 all in favour of Guerrero.
In a March 2010 column he wrote for The New York Times, Berto described some of his efforts for Project Medishare in Haiti after the earthquake, as well as relating that he is frequently mistaken for American football star Reggie Bush. Berto's late father Dieuseul was a retired professional kickboxer who competed at UFC 10, while his sister Revelina and brother James Edson Berto are both professional mixed martial artists themselves. Berto is often called "Mike", his middle name.
Berto married Porsha Nicole Berto in 2020 after being together since 2020. Together they have three children. A daughter named Legaci, born in February 2019, and two sons named Levi Michael, born in late 2020, and Lenox, born in November 2024.
Berto and his Dutch Shepherd Nino appeared on the reality series Canine Intervention.
Boxing record for Andre Berto from BoxRec (registration required)
Andre Berto Q&A at BoxingInsider
A rift lake is a lake formed as a result of subsidence related to movement on faults within a rift zone, an area of extensional tectonics in the continental crust. They are often found within rift valleys and may be very deep. Rift lakes may be bounded by large steep cliffs along the fault margins. Rift lakes can host a variety of life forms, and can be valuable for core sampling.
Lake Baikal, in Siberia
Lake Balaton, in Hungary
The Dead Sea, on the border of Israel, Palestine and Jordan, a pull-apart basin, formed along the Dead Sea Transform.
Ebi Lake in China at the Dzungarian Gate on the border with Kazakhstan
Lake Elsinore, in the Elsinore Trough in Southern California
Lake Hazar, in Turkey
Lake Idaho, a Pliocene rift lake in Idaho
Lake Khuvsgul, northern Mongolia
Limagne, an infilled Paleogene rift lake in France
Lake Lockatong, a rift lake of Triassic age, formed in the Newark Basin.
Lake Malawi, part of East African Rift
The Orcadian Basin, in northern Scotland, had rift lakes that formed during the Middle Devonian.
Rift Valley lakes, eastern Africa
Lake Tanganyika, part of Albertine Rift
Lake Vostok, in Antarctica, may have formed in a rift setting
Þingvallavatn, in Iceland
Solomon Safo-Taylor (born 19 June 1998) is a Ghanaian footballer who plays as a forward for Asante Kotoko. He previously played in Denmark for Vendsyssel FF.
Safo-Taylor played for Karela United from 2018 to 2019, featuring for them in 2019 GFA Normalization Committee Special Competition and helping them to place second in their group and as runners-up of the Tier I after losing against Kumasi Asante Kotoko. He featured in 16 matches and scored 5 goals. He also made 3 appearances and scored 3 goals in the GHALCA Top 8 cup, making it 8 goals in 19 appearances. In that process he formed a deadly attacking duo with Diawisie Taylor.
In August 2019, Safo-Taylor signed a 4-year deal for Hjørring-based Danish 1st Division side Vendsyssel FF for an undisclosed fee. His contract with the club was terminated by mutual consent after scoring only one goal in his six appearances. His only goal came in a Danish cup match against Kjellerup IF which ended in 9–0 win.
On 15 March 2021, Asante Kotoko announced that they had signed Safo-Taylor on a three-and-a-half-year deal on a free transfer. He was expected to serve as the replacement for forward Kwame Opoku, who left Kotoko for USM Alger the past week. On 13 May 2021, he made his competitive debut after coming on in the 64th minute for Francis Andy Kumi in a 2–1 victory over Ebusua Dwarfs. On 11 July 2021, he scored his debut goal, an equalizer in Kotoko's eventual 2–1 loss to Bechem United, which indirectly secured Hearts of Oak the league title.
Safo-Taylor earned a call-up to the Ghana national under-23 football team under Coach Ibrahim Tanko for the 2019 Africa U-23 Cup of Nations qualifiers in 2019.
Solomon Safo-Taylor at WorldFootball.net
Solomon Safo-Taylor at Soccerway
Solomon Safo-Taylor at Global Sports Archive
Witaszewice [vitaʂɛˈvit͡sɛ] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Góra Świętej Małgorzaty, within Łęczyca County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland.
Dame Alice Rosemary Murray, (28 July 1913 – 7 October 2004) was an English chemist and educator. She was instrumental in establishing New Hall, Cambridge, now Murray Edwards College, Cambridge, and was the first woman to hold the office of Vice-Chancellor of the University of Cambridge.
Rosemary Murray was born in Havant, Hampshire, the oldest of six children born to Admiral Arthur John Layard Murray, a scion of the Murray Publishing Family, and Ellen Maxwell Spooner, herself the daughter of William Archibald Spooner, Warden of New College, Oxford. After attending Downe House, Newbury, she studied as an undergraduate chemist and doctoral student at Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford. She completed a BA degree in 1936, and received a DPhil degree in 1938 for her research on aspects of isomerism.
Rosemary Murray went on to hold teaching positions at the Royal Holloway College, the University of Sheffield and Cambridge. She served in various positions throughout her career:
Lecturer in Chemistry, Royal Holloway College (1938–41)
Lecturer in Chemistry, University of Sheffield (1941–42)
Lecturer in Chemistry, Girton College, Cambridge (1946–54)
Fellow, University of Cambridge (1949)
Tutor, University of Cambridge (1951–54)
Demonstrator in Chemistry, University of Cambridge (1947–52)
Tutor in Charge, New Hall, Cambridge (1954–64)
President, New Hall, Cambridge (1964–81)
Vice-Chancellor, University of Cambridge (1975–77)
President, National Association of Adult Education (1977–80)
Governor and Chairman, Keswick College of Education (1953–83)
While at the University of Sheffield (1941–1942) Murray did research on organic chemistry as part of a team working for the Ministry of Supply. In 1942, she joined the WRNS, rising to the rank of chief officer. She worked at Chatham barracks as chief officer directing demobilisation.
A 2013 BBC report
describes a secret major control bunker, later buried beneath the lawns of Magee College, Derry, Northern Ireland. From 1941 this bunker, part of Base One Europe, together with similar bunkers in Derby House, Liverpool, and Whitehall was used to control one million Allied personnel and fight the Nazi U-boat threat. Murray was stationed at Base One Europe as WRNS Chief Officer and responsible for the welfare of 5,600 Wrens stationed at Londonderry.
In 1946, the mistress of Girton College invited Murray to apply for a job at Cambridge. There, Murray played a major role in establishing New Hall, to address the needs of women students. She served as the first president of New Hall from its founding in 1954 until 1981.
In 1975 she became the University of Cambridge's first female vice-chancellor for a two-year term during which time she introduced student representation on university committees, founded the Cambridge Society, and inaugurated the clinical medical school, the new music school, and West Road concert hall.
In 1980, Murray published the booklet New Hall, 1954–1972: the Making of a College.
In 2008, it was announced that New Hall would be renamed Murray Edwards College, in honour of the vision of its first President, Rosemary Murray, and the generosity of the Edwards family.
Murray was a magistrate in Cambridge for 30 years from 1953, and was the first female deputy lieutenant of Cambridgeshire in 1982. She was president of the National Association of Adult Education from 1977 to 1980. She was a member of the Committee on Higher Education in Northern Ireland chaired by Sir John Lockwood (1963–65), which recommended
the closure of Magee College as well as the location of Northern Ireland's 2nd University being Coleraine (February, 1965) and led to the controversial creation of the New University of Ulster, from which she was later awarded a Doctor of Science (DSc) honorary degree (1972). She was a member of the Armed Forces Pay Review Body (1971–81). She was a director of Midland Bank Ltd (1978–84), and an independent director of The Observer (1981–93).
Dame Rosemary Murray was the first woman to serve as the following:
Vice-chancellor of the University of Cambridge
Founder President of the "third foundation" for women, New Hall, Cambridge
Director of a clearing bank, the Midland Bank
Liveryman in the Goldsmiths' Company
Deputy Lieutenant for Cambridgeshire
She was made a Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire (DBE) in 1977.
She received honorary degrees from universities in several countries:
Doctor of Science (DSc), The New University of Ulster, 1972
Doctor of Science (DSc), University of Leeds, 1975
Doctor of Science (DSc), University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 1975
Doctor of Civil Law (DCL), University of Oxford, 1976
Doctor of Law (DL), University of Southern California, 1976
Doctor of Science (DSc), Wellesley College, 1976
Doctor of Laws (LLD), University of Sheffield, 1977
Doctor of Science(DSc), The Royal Australian Institute of Colleges, 1981
Doctor of Law (DL), University of Cambridge, 1988
In 2004, a new rose was named in her honour at the Chelsea Flower Show.
In 2008, New Hall, Cambridge was renamed Murray Edwards College, in her honour.
In 2008, New Hall's Transit of Venus garden was rebuilt as the Dame Rosemary Murray Garden.
She died at the John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford on 7 October 2004, aged 91, following a heart operation.
May, Alex (2009). "Murray, Dame (Alice) Rosemary (1913–2004)". Oxford Dictionary of National Biography (online ed.). Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/ref:odnb/94367. (Subscription, Wikipedia Library access or UK public library membership required.)
The Times (online) obituary for Dame Rosemary Murray
The Independent Online obituary for Murray
Malmö Live is an event venue in Malmö, Sweden. A city block comprising a concert hall, convention center, hotel, and several residential and office buildings situated just north of the canal, on the University Island. It opened in August 2015. Malmö Live Concert Hall is the home of the Malmö Symphony Orchestra and can fit up to 1,600 people.
On old, centrally located harbor area land, created by land reclamation in the 19th century, is the Torsken city block, where used to be the Neptuni park, the old Fish harbor and older harbor buildings such as Benmöllan from the 1850s. Through a project and land allocation competition in 2008, the City of Malmö decided to create a completely new district there, intended as a meeting place with music and congress in focus for residents and visitors. In 2010, it was decided to build the area that is now collectively known as Malmö Live. Construction began in 2012 and on June 4, 2015, the area was formally inaugurated, although some side buildings still remained to be completed. The developer is Skanska and the architect is Schmidt Hammer Lassen. The total cost of the entire complex (concert, congress and hotel) is estimated at SEK 1.4 billion. The entire block covers a total of 90,000 square meters.
At the heart of the venue is Malmö's new concert hall, Malmö Live Konserthus, the new home of the Malmö Symphony Orchestra, with a large concert hall for 1,600 listeners as well as a smaller, flexible venue, Kuben, and some side rooms. This is connected to the large hotel and congress center Clarion Hotel & Congress Malmö Live where the tallest building at 85 meters has 25 floors, 24 conference rooms and a congress hall for 1500 participants, as well as restaurants and skybar. Around this central complex, several freestanding taller buildings with housing and offices are being constructed. The area also includes the two older buildings Västra station - a former railway station - and the Church of Sweden building Sjömansgården. The area around Malmö Live includes Malmö University, Malmö Museums, World Maritime University, the Scania and Blekinge Court of Appeal and Malmö Central Station / City Tunnel. Due to the appearance of several tall buildings, the area is sometimes also known as "Malmhattan". The current director of Malmö Live is Erik Mikael Karlsson since March 2024. Malmö Live hosts symphony orchestras, commercial, cultural and political events as well as business meetings. Hotel operations are managed separately by Strawberry.
A competition for artistic decoration was launched and held in the first half of 2014. The following works were selected for implementation:
Passage, sculpture by Maha Mustafa at the Dag Hammarskjölds torg
Dispersed three in live conjunction, three installations by the South Korean artist Haegue Yang, on house facades near the entrances
E=v=e=n=t, neon sculpture by British artist, Cerith Wyn Evans, indoors
Rubato, sculpture by Eva Hild, located outside the south entrance
Minnenas Hav (Sea of Memories), installation by Karolina Erlingsson, outdoors in the ground in the northeast park space
The wind wall, installation by Petter Thörne, Jens Vium Skaarup and Joshua Morrison, outdoors in the northeast park space
Untitled, sound art by Kim Hedås, in the footbridge over the West Harbour Canal
Official website
Charlotte Opimbat, née Mboundza Moke Ekotikambi is a Congolese Party of Labour (PCT) politician in Congo-Brazzaville. She is the Deputy in the National Assembly for the second Poto-Poto constituency, Brazzaville Department.
After primary schooling and secondary schooling in Poto-Poto, she left Congo in 1978 to study at the Lycée Salvador Allende, Hérouville-Saint-Clair, France. In 1982 she entered the University of Caen Normandy, graduating in economic and social administration in 1985. She then studied for a masters at the François Rabelais University of Tours.
At the age of 28 she married the politician Leon-Alfred Opimbat. The couple have five children.
In the 2007 parliamentary election, Opimbat was elected for Poto-Poto's first constituency, standing for the New Democratic Forces (FDN) party. She was re-elected for Poto-Poto's second constituency in the 2012 parliamentary election, and elected First Quaestor.
In 2013 Opimbat announced the construction of five new boreholes in Poto-Poto, to enable residents to draw water for free. In July 2014 she donated tracksuits to senior citizens in her constituency. In July 2015 she again gave clothing to the elderly as protection from the cold. She was again returned for Poto-Poto 2 in the 2017 parliamentary election.
Opimbat has served as a vice-president of the Congolese women parliamentary group.
In 2020 the first lady, Antoinette Sassou Nguesso, was reported to support Opimbat in her candidacy to be Mayor of Brazzaville.
The Business Intelligence and Reporting Tools (BIRT) Project is an open source software project that provides reporting and business intelligence capabilities for rich client and web applications, especially those based on Java and Java EE. BIRT is a top-level software project within the Eclipse Foundation, an independent not-for-profit consortium of software industry vendors and an open source community.
The project's stated goals are to address a wide range of reporting needs within a typical application, ranging from operational or enterprise reporting to multi-dimensional online analytical processing (OLAP). Initially, the project has focused on and delivered capabilities that allow application developers to easily design and integrate reports into applications.
The project is supported by an active community of users at BIRT Developer Center and developers at the Eclipse.org BIRT Project page.
BIRT has two main components: a visual report designer within the Eclipse IDE for creating BIRT Reports, and a runtime component for generating reports that can be deployed to any Java environment. The BIRT project also includes a charting engine that is both fully integrated into the report designer and can be used standalone to integrate charts into an application.
BIRT Report designs are persisted as XML and can access a number of different data sources including JDO datastores, JFire Scripting Objects, POJOs, SQL databases, Web Services and XML.
The BIRT project was first proposed and sponsored by Actuate Corporation when Actuate joined the Eclipse Foundation as a Strategic Developer on August 24, 2004. The project was subsequently approved and became a top-level project within the Eclipse community on October 6, 2004. The project contributor community includes IBM, and Innovent Solutions.
In 2007 IBM's Tivoli Division adopted BIRT as the infrastructure for its Tivoli Common Reporting (TCR) product. TCR produces historical reports on Tivoli-managed IT resources and processes.
The initial project code base was designed and developed by Actuate beginning in early 2004 and donated to the Eclipse Foundation when the project was approved.
Eclipse BIRT project home page
Sapna Bhavnani is an Indian actress and hairstylist.
Sapna Bhavnani was born in Mumbai and raised in Bandra where she completed high school. She had a reputation as a good student and was tomboyish in her childhood. She rode to school on a motorcycle and liked to pull pranks. Her father, who was a businessman, died when she was 18.
Following her father's death, her family started facing financial difficulties. Bhavnani then decided to drop out of her college in Mumbai and move to the United States. Her Indian-American aunt helped her with her immigration to Chicago in 1989. In Chicago, Bhavnani initially worked as a waitress before enrolling herself as a student at a business school. She graduated with a double major in Marketing and Communication and a minor in Public Speaking from Chicago's Barat College. Bhavnani also experimented with fashion design. She then developed an interest in hairdressing and took it up as a profession. In 2002, Bhavnani visited India after six years and happened to reconnect with an old boyfriend and decided to move back to India.
After struggling to establish herself in Mumbai, Bhavnani initially did job as a hairdresser for a salon called "Juice" and also started working as a Bollywood stylist. She also began writing as a columnist for the newspaper Mumbai Mirror for three years before moving on to another called MiD DAY. In 2004, she opened her first hair salon called Mad-O-Wot in Mumbai, with a team of five people. In 2011, Bhavnani started her second salon in Andheri, Mumbai.
Bhavnani has worked with celebrity clients from a range of fields across entertainment, sports, politics and business. Her clients include Priyanka Chopra, Katrina Kaif, Bipasha Basu, Hrithik Roshan, Mahendra Singh Dhoni, Virat Kohli, John Abraham, Siddharth Mallya, Mandira Bedi, Dino Morea and Gauri Khan. In 2011, she worked with the actor Ranveer Singh for the film Ladies vs Ricky Bahl.
Bhavnani set up a production company called Mad-O-Wot Productions in June 2010, aimed at making music videos, commercials, and short films. In July 2010, Bhavnani worked on Project Unite, which attempted to re-record the Indian national anthem with a music video featuring common Indian people on the streets. Bhavnani was one of the nine people who gave vocals to the track, along with Raghu Ram, Sugandha Garg and Avani Shah among others from the field of entertainment and hairstyling industry. The video was released on 15 August 2010, India's Independence Day.
In October 2010, her production house released a music video called raat, with a Mumbai-based band named Airport. Bhavnani also acted in the video. Mad-O-Wot productions' next project was the music video/film called Snare which was released in March 2011. In April 2011, she released a music-based project as a promotional feature for her Mad-O-Wot brand, which she co-directed with Arijit Datta, that featured Raghu Ram and Rajiv Laxman. Bhavnani next directed a music video in June 2011 for Kailash Kher's single Amber Tak Yahi Naad Goonjega. The track was a dedication to Anna Hazare's anti-corruption movement. In May 2012, she released a dramatic musical video, Ruh, in collaboration with Arijit Datta Projects. In November 2020 she appeared in a kashmiri music video 'JANAAN' under the label of zee music company.
Bhavnani featured in a 2006 Hindi film Pyaar Ke Side Effects. In August 2008, she did a cameo role in Ugly Aur Pagli.
Bhavnani participated in an Indian celebrity reality TV show, Bigg Boss Season 6 on the TV channel Colors in 2012. Bhavnani was nominated for eviction eight times during her stay in the house. She was saved by the public vote seven times.
A week before the finale, Bhavnani was evicted from the show in January 2013, after spending 90 days in the Bigg Boss house and stated that winning the show was never her aim. During her stay in the house, she gave almost every contestant a haircut and a makeover.
Bhavnani was part of a play titled NIRBHAYA, which premiered at the prestigious Edinburgh Fringe Festival in August 2013. It won the Amnesty International Freedom of Expression Award given to an outstanding Fringe production which raises awareness of human rights. It also won the Scotsman Fringe First and the Herald Angel Award for Outstanding New Play. The play is based on real-life events and gender-based violence like the 2012 Delhi gang rape and murder. The play was written and directed by playwright and director Yael Farber.
In November 2011, Bhavnani created fashion line Kathorian, in collaboration with fashion designer Sukriti Grover. The collection was showcased at the August 2012 Lakme Fashion Week. The label is inspired by Victorian influences and the Indian dance form Kathakali.
Bhavnani hosted a few short episodes of a comedy entertainment web show called The Speedy Gonsalez Show on her official YouTube channel in August 2009. She pretended to be a wasted and promiscuous Mexican man living in India, where her guests used to give performances.
In September 2009, Bhavnani authored a non-fiction self-help book titled Style-O-Wot, targeted to teen girls, in which she gives tips related to fashion, trends and style. The book was published by Scholastic India and was marketed under children's books section.
Bhavnani organized an art project called Kalingar at Zenzi in Bandra, Mumbai in June 2011 which was a fusion of hair, fashion, and photography, along with designer Masaba Gupta and photographer Joy Dutta.
Bhavnani has actively endorsed PETA's cause for humane approach to animals and in July 2011 she acted in and modeled for a short promotional ad film, with the tag line "Cut hair, not frogs", to send out her message. The project was produced by PETA India. She also did a commercial for PETA in January 2013. With the slogan "Ink not Mink – Be comfortable in your own skin and let animals keep theirs." She shot this advertisement in the nude.
Bhavnani is known for her fashion style, tattoos and piercings, and her pixie-like cropped hair, inspired by goth and punk-rock styles. She maintains that she is a tomboy at heart. Her immediate family consists of her mother, who lives in Mumbai and two brothers. Bhavnani is fond of cats.
Bhavnani has had three failed marriages in the past. She divorced her first husband, a German, after about a year of marriage, claiming that her mother-in-law was racist towards her. Her second marriage was to the Indian man for whom she relocated from the United States to India. Bhavnani had dated him in her teens. Bhavnani divulged that she became a victim of domestic violence and walked out after four months of marriage. Her third marriage was to Indian model Sameer Malhotra which also ended in a divorce within a year.
She also used to be romantically involved with a Mumbai-based singer-songwriter Arijit Datta. At a web-interview on In.com, she said that while doing the show Bigg Boss, she got attracted to an Indian model, Niketan Madhok, who was her co-contestant.
Official website
Sapna Bhavnani at IMDb
"Earthly Stars (Unsung Heroes)" (地上の星, Chijō no Hoshi) is a song that Japanese musician Miyuki Nakajima composed and recorded for the country's acclaimed television documentary program Project X -Chōsenshatachi-, which aired on NHK during the first half of the 2000s. It was released as a double A-Side single with "Headlight, Taillight" (ヘッドライト・テールライト, Heddoraito Tēruraito) in July 2000 and reached the number-one spot after 30 months, becoming one of the longest running singles in history of the Japanese Oricon chart started in 1968.
After releasing a couple of commercially lackluster studio albums, Nakajima left Pony Canyon, a record label she had belonged to since her debut. Double A-Side single "Earthly Stars (Unsung Heroes)"/"Headlight, Taillight" is the first release under the record label, Yamaha Music Communications, which was newly founded in 2000.
Both songs were originally written for the TV documentary series Project X: Challengers (プロジェクトX～挑戦者たち～, purojekuto X chōsenshatachi) which was aired on NHK. Akira Imai, a producer of the television program decided to ask Nakajima to write theme songs, because he was moved by lyrics of her 1998 smash hit "Another Name for Life". Imai thought that her insight on the song coincided with concept of a documentary that reports unknown activities of obscure people, who built up the modern Japanese society. The program premiered in March 2000, and her theme song which features her distinctive vocals widely became known.
An opening and a closing theme on the program were released as the thirty-seventh single for Nakajima in July 2000, and both of them also appeared on her 28th studio album Short Stories released in November 2000. In 2004, Nakajima re-recorded "Earthly Stars" on her studio live album and DVD entitled Miyuki Nakajima Live! -Live at Sony Pictures Studio in L.A.-, released in the following year. Utatabi, her 2008 live album released on CD and DVD also includes a live recording of "Earthly Stars" performed in December 2007.
"Earthly Stars (Unsung Heroes)" / "Headlight, Taillight" debuted at the number-15 on the Japanese Oricon Chart, in excess of 35,000 copies sold. It became a smash hit because of the long-lasting popularity of the TV documentary program, remaining on the Oricon charts for more than two years.
On 31 December 2002, Nakajima made her appearance on the annual NHK music program Kōhaku Uta Gassen where she performed "Earthly Stars" from the tunnel in Kurobe dam, Toyama Prefecture. Nakajima's performance recorded the highest audience ratings from the program in 2002. After appearing on the show, the single began climbing the charts again, reaching No. 1 in January 2003. The single was later certified to have sold more than a million copies. The video on YouTube has been watched 94 million times as of November 2023.
The song Earthly Stars was sung in karaoke form at the end of Episode 7 of the anime Lucky Star. It was sung by a character named Miyuki Takara, voiced by Aya Endo. (see also: List of Lucky Star albums)
The song is also used in the Suntory Boss Commercial featuring Tommy Lee Jones.
The song Headlight/Taillight is used in the anime Nichijou (Part 79)
The song was used in the 15th season of the show GameCenter CX, in the segment Project CX, a segment about Famicom peripherals. Miyuki Nakajima sings the song with lyrics related to the featured peripheral.
All songs written and composed by Miyuki Nakajima, arranged by Ichizo Seo
"Earthly Stars (Unsung Heroes)" (地上の星, Chijou no Hoshi) – 05:11
"Headlight, Taillight" (ヘッドライト・テールライト, Heddoraito Tēruraito) – 04:58
"Earthly Stars (Unsung Heroes)" (地上の星, Chijou no Hoshi) [TV mix] – 05:11
"Headlight, Taillight" (ヘッドライト・テールライト, Heddoraito Tēruraito) [TV mix] – 04:58
Miyuki Nakajima – vocals
Ichizo Seo – keyboards, strings arrangement & conduct
Hideo Yamaki – tomtom, cymbals
Hideki Matsubara – bass guitar
Masayoshi Furukawa – electric guitar
Elton Nagata – keyboards, acoustic piano
Keishi Urata – computer programming
Seiichi Takubo – computer programming
Masatsugu Shinozaki – violin, concertmaster
Kiyo Kido – violin
Jun Yamamoto – violin
Yumiko Hirose – violin
Osamu Inou – violin
Kei Shinozaki – violin
Yu Sugino – violin
Naoyuki Takahashi – violin
Kathrine Cash – violin
Tsunehiro Shigyo – violin
Keiko Nakamura – violin
Machia Saito – violin
Masako Mabuchi – viola
Joshin Toyama – viola
Gentaro Sakaguchi – viola
Kaori Naruse – viola
Masaharu Karita – cello
Tomoya Kikuchi – cello
Masahiro Tanaka – cello
Susumu Miyake – cello
Yasuhiro Kido – background vocals
Fumikazu Miyashita – background vocals
Katsumi Maeda – background vocals
Toshiro Kirigaya – background vocals
Etsuro Wakakonai – background vocals
Footnotes: Until expansion of the hit parade in December 2002, Oricon provided only the top-100 sales charts in general (except a more detailed magazine especially published for the music industry called Original Confidence)
Saturday Night Live parodies of George H. W. Bush began in 1980 with his vice presidency under Ronald Reagan. The portrayals continued through his presidential campaigns in 1980, 1988, and 1992. SNL has aired dozens of George H. W. Bush parodies by several actors including Jim Downey, Dana Carvey, and Fred Armisen.
During the 1980 Republican Party presidential primaries, Bush was portrayed by Jim Downey for two sketches.
Starting in 1987, Bush (then vice president) would be portrayed by then-sophomore cast member Dana Carvey, but his presence would greatly increase following Bush's bid for the presidency in 1988 and subsequent victory in a mock Oval Office Address. After leaving office in 1993, Carvey played him on occasion, including the 2000 United States Presidential campaign, where he would assist Governor George W. Bush (impersonated by Will Ferrell) during his presidential campaign. In 2010, Carvey reprised his role in Funny or Die's web short, Presidential Reunion.
Fred Armisen was the third person to play the former president during a 2005 cold opener side by side Darrell Hammond impersonating former president Bill Clinton and Will Forte impersonating president George W. Bush.
George H. W. Bush was a fan of Carvey's performance, imitating the impression of himself while giving a eulogy at President Gerald Ford's funeral. After losing his bid for re-election to Bill Clinton in 1992, Bush invited Carvey to the White House for the Christmas party. The two would remain very close family friends until Bush's death in 2018, when Carvey called his quarter-century relationship with the former president "an honor and a privilege".
Ignié is a district in the Djoué-Léfini Department of the Republic of the Congo.
Fernando Express are a German schlager group founded in 1969 as Skippies.
10/1985 Montego Bay
03/1987 Wir machen Holiday
09/1989 Dolce Vita
10/1990 Sehnsucht nach Sonne
10/1991 Unter den Sternen des Südens
11/1992 Das Märchen der weißen Lagune
03/1994 Alle Sehnsucht dieser Welt
03/1995 Ihre größten Erfolge
06/1996 Sei du meine Insel
03/1998 Die Könige der Tanzpaläste
09/1999 Wenn Egon tanzt
09/2000 Sonnentaucher
02/2002 Südlich der Sehnsucht
04/2004 Unser Traum darf nicht sterben
06/2005 Urlaub für die Seele
03/2007 Tanz auf dem Vulkan
09/2008 Meer der Zärtlichkeit
10/2010 Die Könige der Tanzpaläste
01/2012 Pretty Flamingo
08/2013 Bella Bellissima
06/2014 Sommer in der Seele
01/2017 Das Beste
09/2017 Träume sind für alle da
06/2018 Insel des Glücks
09/2018 Einmal Himmel und zurück
11/2019 Das schönste Geschenk
05/1984 Sommer, Sonne, Liebe
05/1985 Montego Bay
10/1985 Goodbye Love
##/1986 Keiner da (Herzliche Grüße von Ibiza)
03/1987 Wir machen Holiday
10/1987 Voyage - Voyage
09/1988 Dolce Vita
05/1989 Fly Away Flamingo
09/1989 Holiday Lover
01/1990 Fiesta Americana
06/1990 Weiße Taube Sehnsucht
11/1990 Die versunkene Stadt
04/1991 Sehnsucht nach Samoa
09/1991 Flüsterndes Herz
12/1991 Farewell Kontiki
04/1992 Goodbye Bora Bora
08/1992 Das Märchen der weißen Lagune
01/1993 Canzone di Luna D #73
07/1993 Jambo Jambo
01/1994 Piano, Piano
03/1994 Capitano D #96
06/1994 Copacabana
07/1994 Alle Sehnsucht dieser Welt
03/1995 Mit dem Albatros nach Süden
09/1995 Du bist der Wind in meinen Segeln
05/1996 Der Tag, an dem die Sonne wiederkam
10/1996 Sei du meine Insel
03/1997 Eviva La Samba (promo single only)
07/1997 Silbervogel (promo single only)
02/1998 Serenata d'Amore (promo single only)
06/1998 Feuer und Flamme (promo single only)
11/1998 Solang' mein Herz noch schlägt (promo single only)
04/1999 Party-Hit-Mix (promo single only)
08/1999 Wenn Egon tanzt (promo single only)
01/2000 Frei wie der Wind (promo single only)
06/2000 Casanova
11/2000 Barcarole Romantica (promo single only)
05/2001 Die Insel der verlorenen Träume
10/2001 Über alle 7 Meere
02/2002 Santo Domingo, die Sterne und du
06/2002 Südlich der Sehnsucht
04/2003 Bolero d'Amore (promo single only)
09/2003 Die Insel der verlorenen Träume (promo single only)
02/2004 Die 10 Gebote der Liebe (promo single only)
06/2004 Die Sonne von Capri (promo single only)
09/2004 Unser Traum darf nicht sterben (promo single only)
02/2005 Coconut und Calypso (promo single only)
06/2005 Barfuß bis ans Ende der Welt (promo single only)
11/2005 Träumer können fliegen (promo single only)
03/2006 Liebe gibt und Liebe nimmt (promo single only)
07/2006 Vino in Portofino (promo single only)
01/2007 Tanz auf dem Vulkan (promo single only)
05/2007 Fliegen bis zum Regenbogen (promo single only)
09/2007 Tausend und ein Gefühl (promo single only)
03/2008 Du bist mein tägliches Wunder (promo single only)
08/2008 Der Rote Mond von Agadir (promo single only)
11/2008 Das Märchen von Arcadia (promo single only)
07/2009 Piroschka
10/2010 Fremde Augen – Fremde Sterne
01/2011 Ich geh durch die Hölle
09/2011 Pretty Flamingo
The Sheikh and the Dustbin is the third and last collection of short stories by George MacDonald Fraser, featuring a young Scottish officer named Dand MacNeill. It is a sequel to The General Danced at Dawn and McAuslan in the Rough and concerns life in a Highland Regiment after the end of the Second World War.
The Servant Problem. Lieutenant MacNeill, having been overseas much longer than the other junior officers of the battalion due to his prior enlisted service, is sent home from North Africa on Leave In Advance of Python, "Python" being the code word for demobilization. As was the custom of the time, he visited the families of a number of his fellow officers and the men of his platoon, telling the families about their sons, husbands, and brothers. Along the way, he muses about being looked after by servants, his grandmother running a Highland lodge with a large staff of servants, and his own experiences with the batmen he has had since becoming an officer candidate and a commissioned officer.
Captain Errol. Just assigned to the battalion as the Intelligence Officer, Captain Errol — not his real name, but rather a reflection of the fact he bears a passing resemblance to Errol Flynn in physical appearance, and more than a passing resemblance to him in his personal mannerisms, panache, and style — is what the Jocks refer to as a "gallus man," someone who is simultaneously an extrovert, indifferent to his effect on others, and reckless. Highly decorated, he holds both a Military Cross and a Military Medal, as well as Balkan decorations for valor and several campaign stars and medals. He started the war as a commissioned officer, was broken to the ranks by court-martial, and subsequently was re-commissioned for outstanding service. Master of all the military arts, he is a sniper-grade marksman, expert in infiltration, a wizard at hand-to-hand combat, and an outstanding observer of the human condition and the psychology of command, yet he is an enigma. Like George Patton or Chesty Puller, Errol is one of those rare men born to excel as warriors. Worshiped by some, despised by others, regarded by a few as a menace to be avoided at all costs, he proves himself to Dand MacNeill and the other officers when the battalion is called on to assist the civil authorities when an Arab nationalist demagogue whips up a riot in the Suk and sends it against the modern town outside the walls of the Old City.
The Constipation of O'Brien. Following an Army Education session in which MacNeill teaches all of his men how to read a compass and a map, he is sucked into bets with half the mess that his men, dropped by pairs out of enclosed trucks along the Mediterranean coast at night, cannot reach a selected point within a reasonable time. And specifically, that Private McAuslan, the British Army's answer to Peking Man, cannot do it. Plus which, to make life more interesting, the Royal Artillery will be providing an opposing force that the Jocks have to sneak past. And just to make it more interesting yet, the Colonel puts a bet on with the Gunners' C.O. that his Highlanders will be able to extinguish a lantern on a bridge that is "home base" without being detected.
The Sheikh and the Dustbin. The battalion is tasked with keeping Suleiman bin Aziz, a notorious native brigand who has been at war with the French his entire life, secure until the French colonial authorities can take custody of him and ship him off to Devil's Island. The dignified, perpetually smouldering sheikh quickly earns the respect and affection of the Scots, especially after hearing the pipes and connecting the sound with the legendary soldier of fortune Sir Harry MacLean, who had been commander of the Sultan of Morocco's army. But before being taken away by the French, bin Aziz gives the Colonel a most precious gift.
McAuslan, Lance-Corporal. The rank of Lance-Corporal in the British Army was described by Rudyard Kipling as being "... 'arf o' nothin', an' all a private yet," but a lance-jack is the one who is in charge of details or a squad in the absence of the real non-commissioned officers. A Brigadier who had been present on the occasion of McAuslan's answering an utterly improbable question about soccer encounters him on fatigues, remembers him, and promotes him to lance-corporal. Hilarity ensues.
The Gordon Women. Dand MacNeill's aunt owns Wade's House, named after the British general who built the first road system north of the border with England through Scotland. Now a hotel, she is still Lady of the Manor of the estate that the family owns. While officer-in-charge of a detail transferring ammunition and explosives about in a deuce-and-a-half truck, Dand MacNeill stops to visit his aunt and rest his men—and finds himself stuck in the middle of a battle of wits between local stillers, poachers, the Excisemen who are out to catch the illegal makers of the malt whisky, and members of the local gentry who want to catch both the stillers and the poachers — plus, of course, the contribution to the chaos of the inimitable Private McAuslan.
Ye Mind Jie Dee, Fletcher? Dand MacNeill muses over the fortunes, mostly ill fortunes, of the Scottish national soccer team in the 1978 World Cup tournament in which Scotland was clobbered by Peru 3–1, drew against Iran, and suffered the indignity of having a player sent home on drug violations. He imagines the debacle being analyzed by Privates McAuslan and Fletcher in Glesca dialect.
Extraduction. George MacDonald Fraser retracts the statement he made in the introduction to The General Danced at Dawn, in which he said that the battalion in which MacNeill, McAuslan, Wee Wullie and the rest served never existed, and that the characters themselves were fictitious. He goes on to tell the story of meeting the Colonel at a book-signing, reminiscing with him over drinks afterwards, and being astonished when the Colonel correctly names the two Jocks whose composite is the infamous Private McAuslan. He also at the very end identifies his allegedly fictional battalion as the Second Battalion of the Gordon Highlanders, and the supposedly fictional Colonel who had commanded it (and him) as Lieutenant Colonel R.G. "Reggie" Lees.
Halfway is a village in Polk County, Missouri, United States. As of the 2020 census, Halfway had a population of 151. It is part of the Springfield, Missouri Metropolitan Statistical Area.
"Half Way" is a descriptive name given by Squire John Askrens derived from the village's location between Bolivar and Buffalo as it is halfway between those two towns. A post office has been in operation at Halfway since 1850.
According to the United States Census Bureau, the village has a total area of 2.14 square miles (5.54 km2), all of it land.
As of the census of 2010, there were 173 people, 61 households, and 47 families living in the village. The population density was 80.8 inhabitants per square mile (31.2/km2). There were 77 housing units at an average density of 36.0 per square mile (13.9/km2). The racial makeup of the village was 93.6% White, 1.7% from other races, and 4.6% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 3.5% of the population.
There were 61 households, of which 34.4% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 54.1% were married couples living together, 13.1% had a female householder with no husband present, 9.8% had a male householder with no wife present, and 23.0% were non-families. 16.4% of all households were made up of individuals, and 4.9% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.84 and the average family size was 3.06.
The median age in the village was 36.1 years. Of the residents, 27.2% were under the age of 18, 7.4% were between the ages of 18 and 24, 25.9% were from 25 to 44, 25.9% were from 45 to 64, and 13.3% were 65 years of age or older. The gender makeup of the village was 43.9% male and 56.1% female.
As of the census of 2000, there were 176 people, 67 households, and 46 families living in the village. The population density was 82.4 inhabitants per square mile (31.8/km2). There were 74 housing units at an average density of 34.7 per square mile (13.4/km2). The racial makeup of the village was 96.02% White, 1.14% Native American, 0.57% from other races, and 2.27% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.57% of the population.
There were 67 households, out of which 29.9% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 58.2% were married couples living together, 10.4% had a female householder with no husband present, and 29.9% were non-families. 25.4% of all households were made up of individuals, and 10.4% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.63 and the average family size was 3.19.
In the village, the population was spread out, with 26.1% under the age of 18, 8.5% from 18 to 24, 34.7% from 25 to 44, 18.8% from 45 to 64, and 11.9% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 35 years. For every 100 females, there were 112.0 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 97.0 males.
The median income for a household in the village was $32,813, and the median income for a family was $38,750. Males had a median income of $18,250 versus $17,969 for females. The per capita income for the village was $14,551. About 12.5% of families and 20.5% of the population were below the poverty line, including 30.0% of those under the age of 18 and none of those 65 or over.
Viktor Kubiszyn (born 1979) is a Hungarian writer. He studied film theory, film history, Hungarian linguistics and literature, as well as aesthetics, at the Faculty of Humanities of Eötvös Loránd University, Budapest between 1998 and 2006.
His articles, film reviews, reports, interviews and essays have been published since 2002 in prominent Hungarian journals and Internet sites (Beszélő, Litera, Filmvilág, Film.hu, etc.), and collected into his first book, published in 2011 as Filmflesskönyv (Film-trip-book). His first, autobiographical novel, Drognapló (Drug Diary), a documentary novel, was also published in 2011, achieving instant success.
Kubiszyn was born in Miskolc on 16 Nov. 1979, and has lived since 1986 in Budapest. He graduated in 1998 from the Berzsenyi Dániel Gimnázium (Berzsenyi High School). From 1998 to 2006 he was a student at the Eötvös Loránd University Faculty of Humanities (ELTE BTK) .
He spent one part of his past junkie life in the 8th district of Budapest, Józsefváros, near the historic )Inner City district which he often calls "the Zone". This part of the city is the poorest area of Budapest with a bad reputation. The area is a traditional craftsmen neighborhood, which became a slum in the previous decades.
His first book was published by Underground Kiadó [3] in 2011 as Filmflesskönyv (Film-trip-book), a collection of articles and essays. It contains his film criticisms which were published mostly in the "Filmhu" movie page and "Filmvilág" between 2003 and 2006. He has also published in “Pergő Képek”, "Beszélő", "Mozinet Magazin" and “Árgus”.
The following is an extract from the preface to the book written by András Vágvölgyi B.: "Viktor Kubiszyn is not a production-line worker of daily film criticism; Viktor Kubiszyn is an author with directions. His choices of values and topics are counter-cultural; he prefers elevating and praising to bad-mouthing, criticizing and cutting his way forward in the world of motion pictures. Underground, drug movies; alchemy in 24 frames per second, celluloid culture from the 60s through our times". (translated by Paul Crowson)
His first novel, Drognapló (Drug Diary), a documentary autobiographical novel, was published in 2011 by Jószöveg Műhely Kiadó [4].
Drognapló draws from a very important part of the author's life. The writer, who quit his drug addiction of his own accord, received a request from the Hungarian literary portal, Litera, on the first anniversary of his rebirth in 2010 to write a diary. This short story-like infernal trip piqued the publishing house's interest, so they decided to order the writing of a whole book based on the story.
Adél Hercsel, Istent nem kellett kihúzni a mondatból, prae.hu, 22 March 2012.
Miklós Balatincz, „Az, hogy valaki túléli, nincs benne a pakliban" – interview with Viktor Kubiszyn, comitatusfolyoirat.blogspot.hu, 7 July 2012.
Éva Marton, „A kannásbor lett a bázisdrogom", hvg.hu, 13 July 2012.
Anita Libor, A kábítószer rohadt hálás téma, Könyves Magazin, 5 December 2011.
Zsuzsanna Bagdán, A megtért emberek kriptaszökevények, reformatus.hu, 3 April 2012.
Márta Várnagyi, Mikor herkás múzsa adta a puszit – életművek a drog után, kultography.hu, 26 June 2012.
Talk about the book, Tilos Radio – Kolorlokál with András Csejdy and Zoltán Rozgonyi, 2 November 2011.
Interview, Civil Radio – Református Félóra, 26 January 2012.
Lajos Jánossy's critique of Drug Diary, Bartók Radio – Irodalmi újság, 28 January 2012.
Interview with Anita Bak n, MR1-Kossuth Rádió, 29 November 2011.
Interview with Dénes Dudits Radio Q, 13 March 2012.
Phone interview, Klubrádió – Bemutató példány, 21 March 2012.
Minden kapcsolat elvész – Interview by Gergely Horváth – Petőfi Radio – 7 June 2012.
Interview with Sarolta Vlasics – Kossuth Radio – Irodalmi újság, 15 July 2012.
Interview with Gábor Gönczi – Mária Radio – Függő kérdések, 4 July 2012.
SzolnokTV – Aktuális, 16 May 2012.
Duna Televízió – 1 könyv, 27 February 2012.
Chapters from the book (in Hungarian), Mindennapi.hu], 29 December 2011.
Betti Varga, Pletykák, drogok, klasszikus hibák, Kötve-fűzve, 30 December 2011.
Anita Pethő, Egy kupac remegés, Prae.hu, 23 February 2012.
Adél Tossenberger, Hibrid, punk, HVG extra Business, 2012/ 1. 14 May 2012.
English excerpts from Drug Diary – Hlo.hu, 21 August 2012.
Drognapló is available in Hungarian audiobook format, on a free CD. It contains 6,5 hours of audio in mp3, the author's reading his own book. It was made in 8 sessions in April 2012, with sound engineer/editor Dániel Balog in Tilos Radio.
Hungarian online magazine ”Index" [5] shot a video about his past junkie life in the 8th district of Budapest and his rehab and faith in God. The short film consists of three parts: in the first part the author talks about his way of life in the 8th, the viewer can see the slummy surrounding and also some photos about Kubiszyn from the past. In the second part the author's having a conversation with one of the social workers who deals with disadvantaged Romani youth day by day. In the third chapter we get an inside look into a Hungarian rehab where Kubiszyn got help in getting rid of his addictions. He tells stories about how he wrote his book Drug Diary, how he lived in this institution, has a little conversation with one of the inmates and at the end he explains his faith in God.
The author's youtube channel
The original Hungarian version of the Index-video
Orenaia pallidivittalis is a moth in the family Crambidae. It was described by Eugene G. Munroe in 1956. It is found in North America, where it has been recorded from British Columbia.
The Tournament for Bolesław Chrobry Crown - First King of Poland (Polish: Turniej o Koronę Bolesława Chrobrego - Pierwszego Króla Polski) is an annual motorcycle speedway event organized by the Start Gniezno, which is a motorcycle speedway team. The tournament is held each year in the Start Gniezno Stadium in Gniezno, Poland (the first capital of Poland). The tournament is named after Bolesław I the Brave, the first King of Poland (1025), who previously ruled as Duke of Poland (992–1025).
motorcycle speedway
(Polish) Official website
Frank Wade may refer to:
Frank Wade (cricketer) (1871–1940), Australian cricketer
Frank E. Wade (1873–1930), American lawyer football player and coach
Frank E. Wade (prison commissioner) (1865–1929), American lawyer and New York Superintendent of State Prisons
Francis Wade (1909–1987), American Jesuit and professor of philosophy
The NZ Independent Coalition is a former political party in New Zealand. The party was founded in January 2014 by Brendan Horan. Horan was expelled from New Zealand First in December 2012 following accusations of taking money from his dying mother's bank account and spending it on gambling. Horan acted an independent Member of Parliament after expulsion, and proposed starting a party in January 2013. In February 2014, the party registered a logo with the Electoral Commission. On 18 June 2014, it applied for registration. The party was registered on 24 July.
The party launched its campaign on 29 July 2014 with a slogan of "safe children, safe whanau, safe society", and promising higher pensions and the removal of tertiary education fees. On 19 August, it announced its party list. The party emphasised electorate representation, and MPs were required to poll their electorates on major issues and vote accordingly.
In the New Zealand General Election, held in September 2014, the party did not win any electorate seats, or enough percentage of the party vote to stay in Parliament. It attracted 872 voters, or 0.04% of total New Zealand voter share. The party was deregistered by the Electoral Commission on 20 May 2016.
Official website
Lela Margaret Cole Kitson (May 25, 1891, in Hill City, South Dakota – November 25, 1970, in El Paso, Texas) was a freelance writer of primarily western romances from 1920 to 1955.
Later she worked in the newspaper and radio industries in El Paso, Texas. Besides her own name, Kitson wrote under the pen names Lupe Loya, Elsie Kay, Cole Kitson, Shirley Manners and Susan Cole. Her newspaper career included: The Tucson Star 1912–14; The Los Angeles Times 1922–? as feature writer; The El Paso Herald Post 1943–50 as Woman's Page Editor and the Hudsbeth County News 1964–1970 as "The Observer", a political commentary column.
She was born to David Cole of New York and Maude Carr of Wisconsin, and was the eldest and only daughter of six children. Her father's upward move in the mining plant design and reduction machinery design led the family in 1896 to Chicago, Illinois, in 1900 to Aspen, Colorado, and in 1902 to Cananea, Mexico. Higher education was not available in Cananea so she was sent to the Marlborough School for Girls located in Los Angeles, where other Cole family members resided, including her great-granduncle U.S. Senator Cornelius Cole.
Following her graduation from Marlborough and a 1911 trip to Japan with the Mining Association, she joined her family in Tucson, Arizona, in 1912, working for the Tucson Star Newspaper as Society Editor. In 1914 she married Howard Waldo Kitson of New York City, a 1909 Columbia College graduate specializing in mining and geology, in Morenci, Arizona, where he was employed.
Following the death of their son in late 1917, the Kitsons moved to New York City, where they boarded with his mother, silent film actress May Kitson. In early 1918 Mrs. Kitson joined the Author's League of America. For the birth of their daughter she removed to El Paso where her parents had moved in 1917. Between 1919 and the 1931 suicide of her husband Waldo in Long Beach, the Kitsons lived in Arizona and California. Whenever Waldo was out in the field, Lela and their daughter temporarily moved back to El Paso, Texas where they resided with her parents.
In 1921 Street & Smith was the first publisher of her short romantic stories written under Lupe Loya. Their publication was Western Story Magazine. Between 1927 and 1931 she also wrote under the name Elsie Kay. Lela wrote advice stories in Picture Play, also a Street & Smith publication. In 1926 The Clayton Magazines Inc. added Lela to their stable of writers. As Lupe Loya, her romantic tales were published in Ranch Romances, Western Love Stories and Ranchland Love Stories. In 1933 Warner Publishing Inc took over Street & Smith and continued publishing Lupe Loya stories in RANCH ROMANCES. More than twice her stories were featured on the magazine cover. In the 40s and 50s her pseudonym was Shirley Manners and her publisher was Standard Magazines Inc, "Thrilling Love".
Lela also wrote freelance for the Los Angeles Times and other publications. In 1943 Lela joined the El Paso Herald-Post a Scripps-Howard News publication as the Woman's Page Editor, a position she held until 1950. She then began a radio show "Woman to Woman" on KTSM El Paso Texas, a CBS affiliate. In 1964, under the pen name "The Observer", Lela wrote a political column for the Hudsbeth County News, a bi-monthly newspaper published in Dell City, Texas, which she continued until her death.
Loya, Lupe; pseudonym of Lela Cole Kitson, (1891–1970) (chron.)
Archibald Tries Life in the Open, (ss) Western Story Magazine May 6, 1922
Cactus Turns the Other Cheek, (ss) The Live Wire June 1925
Clementine, (ss) Western Story Magazine April 16, 1921
Cosey Corner Changes Cooks, (ss) Western Story Magazine February 17, 1923
Desert Vistas, (ar) Western Story Magazine July 16, 1921
The Dog That Isn’t a Dog, (ss) Western Story Magazine October 1, 1921
Has the Coon Butte Mystery Been Solved?, (ar) Western Story Magazine September 16, 1922
Joe’s Pets, (ss) Western Story Magazine November 29, 1924
Peace on Earth, (nv) Ranch Romances December 3, 1932
Puncher vs. Poet, (ss) Western Story Magazine June 24, 1922
Rio Grande Romance, (ss) Ranch Romances April 2, 1941
The Rodeo at El Paso, (ar) Western Story Magazine July 9, 1921
The Sea in the Desert, (ar) Western Story Magazine October 29, 1921
Temperamental Tillie, (ss) Western Story Magazine October 21, 1922
Uncle Caleb Dodges Matrimony, (ss) Western Story Magazine September 3, 1921
The White Chink, (ss) Western Story Magazine December 23, 1922
Will Big Game Come Back?, (ar) Western Story Magazine September 24, 1921
Arizona Record Newspaper, Globe, Arizona May 7, 1922 "Arizona Girl Pens Unique Version of Tenderfoot Guest"
The Scripps-Howard News Company Magazine Vol 2 Number 4 January 1948, page 7 "El Paso Herald-Post, Lela Cole Kitson"
Torture Trek, Johnson, Ryerson, Barricade Books Inc., New York 1995 pages 6, 12
Street & Smith 79–89 Seventh Ave, New York City, New York
Clayton Magazines Inc 155 East 44th Street, New York City, New York
Warner Publishing Inc. 578 Madison Ave, New York City, New York
Sample of her non-fiction writing style are available here
Dinornis (from Ancient Greek δεινός (deinós), meaning "terrible", and ὄρνις (órnis), meaning "bird"), also known as the giant moa, is an extinct genus of birds belonging to the moa family. As with other moa, it is a member of the order Dinornithiformes. It was endemic to New Zealand. Two species of Dinornis are considered valid, the North Island giant moa (Dinornis novaezealandiae) and the South Island giant moa (Dinornis robustus). In addition, two further species (new lineage A and lineage B) have been suggested based on distinct DNA lineages.
Dinornis may have been the tallest bird that ever lived, with the females standing around 3.6 m (12 ft) tall, and weighing an estimated 230–240 kg (510–530 lb) or 278 kg (613 lb) in various estimates. However, the males of the genus were much smaller, only around 34–85 kilograms (75–187 lb).
Feather remains are reddish brown and hair-like, and covered most of the body except the lower legs and most of the head (plus a small portion of the neck below the head). While no feathers have been found from moa chicks, it is likely that they were speckled or striped to camouflage them from Haast's Eagles.
The feet were large and powerful, and could probably deliver a powerful kick if threatened. The birds had long, strong necks and broad sharp beaks that would have allowed them to eat vegetation from subalpine herbs through to tree branches. In relation to its body, the head was small, with a pointed, short, flat and somewhat curved beak.
The North Island giant moa tended to be larger than the South Island giant moa.
The cladogram below follows a 2009 analysis by Bunce and colleagues:
It has been long suspected that several species of moa constituted males and females, respectively. This has been confirmed by analysis for sex-specific genetic markers of DNA extracted from bone material. For example, prior to 2003 three species of Dinornis were recognised: South Island giant moa (D. robustus), North Island giant moa (D. novaezealandiae) and slender moa (D. struthioides). However, DNA analysis showed that all D. struthioides were in fact males, and all D. robustus were females. Therefore, the three species of Dinornis were reclassified as two species, one each formerly occurring in New Zealand's North Island (D. novaezealandiae) and South Island (D. robustus); However, D. robustus comprises three distinct genetic lineages and may eventually be split into more than one species. Dinornis seems to have had the most pronounced sexual dimorphism of all moa, with females being up to twice as tall and three times as heavy as males.
While it is impossible to know exactly how Dinornis reproduced and raised young, assumptions can be made from extant ratites. The larger females may have competed to mate with the most desirable males who themselves were likely to have been extremely territorial. Eggs may have been laid in communal nests in sand dunes, or by individual birds in sheltered environments such as hollow trees or by rocks. The female would have had little to do with the eggs once they had been laid while the male would have incubated the egg for up to three months before it hatched.
Dinornis eggs were enormous, as large as a rugby ball, and around 80 times the volume of a chicken's egg. The eggs of D. novaezealandiae reached a length and width of 19 centimetres (7.5 in) and 15 centimetres (5.9 in) respectively, while the eggs of Dinornis robustus reached a length and width of 24 centimetres (9.4 in) and 17.8 centimetres (7.0 in), respectively, placing them among the largest bird eggs known, considerably larger than ostrich eggs (the largest living bird eggs), though smaller than those produced by the elephant bird Aepyornis. However, despite their size, Dinornis eggs were extremely thin, with the eggshells of D. novaezealandiae being only around 1.06 millimetres (3⁄64 in) thick and D. robustus' eggshells being 1.4 millimetres (1⁄16 in) thick (for contrast, the eggs of Aepyornis are around 3.7 millimetres (9⁄64 in) thick). As such, Dinornis eggs have been estimated to be the 'most fragile of all avian eggs measured to date'.
It is possible that such fragile eggs resulted in the male moa adapting to become smaller than the females to reduce the risk of crushing the eggs. However, it is possible that the male moa would curl themselves around the eggs rather than sitting on them directly. Given the size of the eggs, and the incubation period, as soon as giant moa chicks hatched they would have been able to see, run and feed themselves.
Dinornis were very adaptable and were present in a wide range of habitats from coastal to alpine. It is possible that individual moa would have moved from environment to environment with the changing seasons.
Prior to the arrival of humans, the giant moa had an ecologically stable population in New Zealand for at least 40,000 years. The giant moa, along with other moa genera, were wiped out by Polynesian settlers, who hunted it for food. All taxa in this genus were extinct by the year 1500. It is generally accepted that the Māori still hunted them at the beginning of the 15th century, although some models suggest extinction had already taken place by the middle of the 14th century. Although some birds became extinct due to farming, for which the forests were cut and burned down and the ground was turned into arable land, the giant moa had been extinct for 300 years prior to the arrival of European settlers.
Rediscovery of the types of Dinornis curtus Owen and Palapteryx geranoides Owen, with a new synonymy (Aves: Dinornithiformes)
Specific citations
General references
South Island Giant Moa. Dinornis robustus. by Paul Martinson. Artwork produced for the book Extinct Birds of New Zealand, by Alan Tennyson, Te Papa Press, Wellington, 2006
Tale of the giant moa by Matt Rayner and Andrea Stevens. Auckland War Memorial Museum - Tāmaki Paenga Hira. First published: 23 November 2015. Updated: 12 November 2019.
Garden Valley may refer to the following places:
Garden Valley, California, U.S.
Garden Valley, Idaho, U.S.
Garden Valley High School
Garden Valley, Texas, U.S.
Garden Valley, Wisconsin, U.S.
Garden Valley School Division, Winkler, Manitoba, Canada
Garden Valley Road, Alberta Highway 627, Canada
Harold Charles Deutsch (June 7, 1904 – May 15, 1995) was an American military historian who focused on World War II. During the Second World War, he served as head of research for the Office of Strategic Services.
Deutsch was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. He was a graduate of the University of Wisconsin (B.A., M.A.) and Harvard University (M.A., Ph.D.). In Europe he studied at the University of Paris, the University of Vienna and the University of Berlin. He was a professor of history at the University of Minnesota. Deutsch joined the US Army War College's Strategic Studies Institute as a political scientist. During the Second World War he was chief of the Political Subdivision for Europe, Africa, and the Middle East of the Office of Strategic Services.
Deutsch, Harold C., and Dennis E. Showalter What If: The Might-Have-Beens of World War II Chicago, Ill: Emperor's Press, 1997.
Deutsch, Harold C., and Dennis E. Showalter. If the Allies Had Fallen: Sixty Alternate Scenarios of World War II. New York: Skyhorse Publishing, Inc, 2012.
Deutsch, Harold C. Hitler and His Generals: The Hidden Crisis, January–June 1938. Minneapolis, Minn: University of Minnesota Press, 1974.
The Conspiracy Against Hitler in the Twilight War
Hitler and His Generals: The Hidden Crisis, January–June 1938, 1974
The Historical Impact of Revealing The Ultra Secret, 1977
The Influence of ULTRA on World War II, 1978
The Genesis of Napoleonic Imperialism, Harvard University Press (1938).
"This Is a Trent Reznor Song" is a 2014 parody song by American comedian and musician Freddy Scott about the stylistic elements commonly found in songs by Nine Inch Nails leader Trent Reznor. The tune is inspired by the Nine Inch Nails song "Copy of a".
Spin described the song as "reductive, unfair, and more than a little silly" but also "priceless" for its accuracy. Entertainment Weekly praised it as a "spot-on homage" and "pretty hilarious". At Stereogum, Tom Breihan called it "great" and "something (he)'d listen to [even] if it didn't have joke lyrics" but considered the song's value as a parody lessened by the fact that Scott chose to emphasize stylistic elements common in Reznor's earlier work but not his more recent songs.
Scott has said he is a "huge fan" of Reznor, whose work he has described as "absolutely brilliant." In March 2014, Scott released a music video for the song, inspired by the videos for the Nine Inch Nails songs "Closer", "The Hand That Feeds", and "We're in This Together". Entertainment Weekly considered it "a little more outwardly funny than the song itself" while still showing "reverence for Reznor's work". Consequence of Sound stated that it was "every bit as amazingly and amusingly on-point" as the song. Stereogum found that the "jokes-per-minute ratio could be higher" while noting the success of the jokes that are present, particularly lauding the use of a box labeled "Weird Sound".
This Is a Trent Reznor Song on YouTube
The Fort of São Sebastião de Caparica (Portuguese: Forte de São Sebastião de Caparica) also known as the Tower of São Sebastião (Portuguese: Torre de São Sebastião) or Fortress of the Old Tower (Portuguese: Fortaleza de Torre Velha) is a medieval fortification located in Monte da Caparica, civil parish of Caparica, in the municipality of Almada, in the Portuguese central region of Península de Setúbal.
The fortress of Torre Velha is one of the more important examples of Renaissance-era military architecture, at a time when it served as part of an integrated system of defensive artillery outposts at the end of the 15th and beginning of the 16th century, in particular with the bulwarks of Tower of Santo António de Cascais (1498) and São Vicente (1512).
The Old Tower, situated on the southern margin of the Tagus River, was commissioned by King John II, on the same site of the older Fort of Caparica (which was built in the reign of his father, King John I). The fort received its name Torre Velha mostly because the structure was considered "older" than the Tower of São Vicente (Portuguese: Torre de São Vicente), which later be known as the Tower of Belém. Its original structure, from the sketches of Garcia de Resende, comprised a tower and bulwark, similar to the model developed years later in the Fort of Santiago da Barra in Viana do Castelo and the Tower of Belém in Lisbon. Defences along the estuary and port of Lisbon were based on a system of three towers, which were supplied with modern artillery (including the Bulwarks of Cascais and the São Vicente), which cooperated with the naval artillery (which patrolled the waters of the river) to enforce military and fiscal authority.
In 1571, following similar initiatives taken at several forts along the Portuguese coast, King Sebastian ordered the remodelling of the tower. At the time, the fort was named in the Portuguese tradition in honour of São Brás (Saint Blaise), the patron saint of artillerymen, and changed to honour the young King (lost at the Battle of Alcácer Quibir) and Saint Sebastian. Under the responsibility of Afonso Álvares, the new project transformed the fort into a massive fortress, becoming referred to as the Fortress of São Sebastião da Caparica (Portuguese: Fortaleza de São Sebastião da Caparica). Between 1580 and 1640 it was referred to locally as the Torre dos Castelhanos (Tower of the Castilians), where it was remodelled structurally to meet the requirements of the Philippine Dynasty.
Between 1640 and the 18th century, a branch of the Távora dynastic clan in Almada served as governors of the Old Tower, paying particular attention to remodelling during the 17th century.
By 1692, the fundamental aspects of the fort were established; the 15th century towers, the walls along the east and south, the three bulwarks, a governor's residence, a chapel (consecrated to Saint Blaise and Saint Sebastian), integrated coat-of-arms and a staircase along the southeast facade. In the second half of the 18th century, there are indications that the terrain (and buildings) along the river were consolidated. These aspects were recorded in the Coleção Casa de Cadaval (Cadaval House Collection) in the Torre do Tombo archives.
Information from 1767 showed the Old Tower (now known as São Sebastião) on a hill, providing a crossfire zone with Tower of Belém on the opposite bank of the Tagus.
In a report written on 9 September 1794, by Guilherme Luís António de Valleré, directed to the Minister of War (Portuguese: Ministro da Guerra), the Duke of Lafões, it was indicated that the tower was undergoing restoration. This restoration continued from 1794 to 1796, under the direction of Colonel Francisco D'Alincourt.
The fortresses of the southern margin were deactivated in 1801, at the end of the War of the Oranges, when Spanish and French forces invaded Portugal. A survey completed at the end of 1808 included a precise inventory of the armaments in the fort at the time of its decommissioning, including: five 36-calibre bronze pieces, four 18-calibre, nine 12-calibre, five 24-calibre iron pieces, nine 18-calibre iron pieces, six 6-calibre iron pieces, six 45-calibre artillery pieces in state of disrepair, and nine 12-calibre in the same condition, in addition to two marine 36-calibre carts, five marine 24-calibre carts, 13 18-calibre marine carts, six 6-calibre marine carts, and 2400 balls (of two-, eight-, 18- and 36-calibre).
It was suggested that, in 1811, the space used to warehouse artillery accessories was used for prisoners. Similarly, on 13 August 1814, it was determined that the Fort could serve as quarantine for lodging passengers and crews suspected of carrying contagious diseases. This included Rafael Bordalo Pinheiro who was suspected of having yellow fever, and was eventually sent to Brazil; the artist and humourist later made light of Portuguese regulations and poor treatment facilities.
On 29 May 1815, the fort was deactivated by order of the government, while part of its buildings were conserved as lodging for the security forces used to guard people in quarantine and those with leprosy.
A new survey of the munitions on site in January 1828 revealed a smaller quantity of artillery, including: one 28-calibre iron piece; six 6-calibre iron pieces; 17 13-calibre iron pieces; two 98-calibre iron mortars; 2,500 balls (of various calibres) and 50 9-calibre bombs.
In 1832, the tower was remodelled and reactivated once more. On recommissioning the batteries had a smaller complement of munitions and artillery, including: two 26-calibre pieces; six 24-calibre pieces and three 18-calibre weapons. The complement of soldiers garrisoning the site included one subordinate, one sergeant, three privates and 31 soldiers.
By the middle of the 19th century, the Old Tower was declared of no interest, and began acting as a second-class military facility. But, by 1894, the site was no longer used for this purpose, and began to serve as storage and housing (acting as an annex for the munitions warehouses of nearby Porto Brandão).
In 1859, its quarantine role was discontinued, passing to another institution nearby, although the guards continued to be housed onsite. Eventually, the fortress was abandoned.
The process to classify the Old Tower began in 1982, ending in its recognition as a National Monument (Portuguese: Monumento Nacional) on 12 April 1996.
The structure is located on Periurban, a hill on the southern shore of the Tagus River, between two small creeks, that of the Porto Brandão and Paulina, approximately opposite the Tower of Belém.
The U-shaped plan is formed from three corps, two oriented to the south, with the final "rounded" block (joining the two), serving as the battery's esplanade. At the southwest corner of the fortress, is the bulwark and watchtower. Around the principal nucleus of the fortress is a second tier of spaces used for lodging; there are three bulwarks and barracks (one on the northeast, another along the southeast and a final one in the south, along the wall with cannons). Owing to erosion of the front/seaside facade, it is impossible to determine any further archaeological significance. The buildings over the older parapets were the result of the structure's transformation into shelter/residences for lepers, and consist of six T-shaped extensions to the main structure to create the Asilo de Caparica (Asylum of Caparica).
The central area of the fort is an ample rectangular space with doorway and window, with the residence of the governor alongside.
The fortress survived into the 20th century, maintaining many of the fundamental aspects established in the 17th century, in a plan designed in 1692. The design was ostensibly a U-shaped plan, composed of three spaces and three bulwarks with barracks, one of the extremities of the fort extends from a battlement to a watchtower. Alongside the gate, is a chapel, constructed and dedicated to São Sebastião.
The central body of the Old Tower was a rectangular plan, with the Governor's house inside. The old gate of the main square, near the tower, includes a coat-of-arms of Portugal.
The battlements consist of 15th century stonework, while the tower, the corbels, gatehouse and gateway access to the chapel were constructed in the 17th century. At the end of the 18th century, the fortress received new remodelling, possibly involving consolidation of the fortifications, under the supervision of Colonel Francisco D'Alincourt.
The battlements and machicolations are still visible on the walls, with the beams of another on the top floors. This part of the tower is covered in a barrel vault, while a terrace is located on its surface, with an external staircase to access the second floor (between the floor and roof), allowing communication between both by doorway. Small calibre artillery or machicolations probably supported the balcony and wall. A coat-of-arms is located on the lintel of the door, in the old military square, with the Portuguese heraldry.
Barbosa, I. de Vilhena (1864), "Novo Lazareto da Torre Velha", Archivo Pittoresco (in Portuguese), vol. 12, Lisbon, Portugal{{citation}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
Vieira, Duarte Joaquim Júnior (1984), Villa e Termo de Almada (in Portuguese), Lisbon, Portugal{{citation}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
Sousa, H. Pereira de Raul (1981), Fortalezas de Almada e Seu Termo (in Portuguese), Almada, Portugal{{citation}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
Sousa, H. Pereira de Raul (1997), Pequena História da Torre Velha (in Portuguese), Almada, Portugal{{citation}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
CCRLVT, ed. (1998), À Descoberta das Sentinelas: Roteiro de Castelos e Fortalezas da Região de Lisboa e Vale do Tejo (in Portuguese), Lisbon, Portugal{{citation}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
de Melo, Francisco Manuel (1651), "Torre Velha", Carta de Guia de Casados [Casados Map Guide] (in Portuguese), Lisbon, Portugal
Sadir Uddin Ahmed (1931–27 August 2018) (Bengali: সাদির উদ্দিন আহমেদ) was a Awami League politician in Bangladesh and a former member of parliament for Mymensingh-21.
Ahmed was elected to parliament from Mymensingh-21 as an Awami League candidate in 1973.
Ahmed died on 27 August 2018.
The Teen Driver Challenge (TDC) sponsored by the Florida Sheriffs Association (FSA) is a 12-hour course presented to students over a two-day period, ideally with a 5-to-1 student-to-instructor ratio. The course will provide students with the knowledge and hands-on experience to reduce their chances of being involved in a crash. Attendance and participation in this training will provide students with life saving skills, techniques and education about the operation of a motor vehicle. The hours spent participating in the Teen Driver Challenge can be used toward fulfilling the requirements set forth in Florida's Graduated Driver's License program.
The FSA Teen Driver Challenge was developed at the request of Florida Sheriffs to combat the high crash and fatality rate of Teen Drivers on Florida highways. After a pilot program was successfully conducted in 2006 by the Leon County Sheriff's Office at the request of the FSA, the FSA Board of Directors adopted the concept in 2007. FSA then organized a team of Law Enforcement driving experts who were certified as Instructors by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement in emergency vehicle operation. Today there are 35 counties with an active TDC program:
Alachua, Bradford, Brevard, Citrus, Clay, Collier, Desoto, Dixie, Duval, Escambia, Franklin, Gadsden, Glades, Gulf, Hamilton, Hernando, Hillsborough, Highlands, Lake, Lee, Leon, Manatee, Marion, Osceola, Pasco, Pinellas, Polk, Santa Rosa, Sarasota, Seminole, St. Lucie, Sumter, Taylor, Volusia, Wakulla, Walton
With more to come soon.
The program is designed for students ages 15 to 19 who have a valid license or learners permit. The course is held over two days and consists of two parts, an educational classroom and hands on driving instruction. The course if offered to students at no cost through their local Sherriff's office. The objectives of the course are to:
Reduce the number of crashes for drivers who take this class
Reduce the number of fatal crashes for drivers who take this class
Reduce the number of DUI arrest and aggressive driving citations for drivers who take this class
The four-hour classroom portion will cover a workbook that deals with crash-related issues, such as vehicle dynamics, braking, steering and traffic laws. Other chapters include issues like aggressive driving, distracted driving (texting, cell phone use, etc.), DUI and seatbelt issues.
Students will participate in eight hours of behind the well driving instruction, which counts toward the 50 hours of required driving in Florida's Graduated Driver's License Program. The hands-on driving instruction, usually held at a Law Enforcement driving range, will put the students behind the wheel of their own vehicle and go through as assortment of exercises including:
Off-road recovery
Forward serpentine
Reverse serpentine
Evasive maneuvers
Threshold/Emergency Braking
At the completion of the program students will be presented a Certificate of Completion that may presented to your auto insurance company for a possible premium reduction.
The FSA TDC is licensed statewide by the Florida Department HSMV as a Commercial Driving School, license #3975. Each Law Enforcement Instructor who teaches the program is also licensed, under the FSA License, as a school Instructor. Each new Instructor goes through a rigorous "Train the Trainer" class with an original team member, or sits through an actual program under an established program's Instructor. The original team members are responsible for TDC Instructor training in various areas throughout the state.
The FSA TDC was initially funded by the FSA followed by a grant from the Florida Department of Transportation Traffic Safety Office, which is reduced by 25% each year of renewal. Funding has been used to buy three vehicles, including two skid pad vehicles and a SUV used by the Program Coordinator to support the Sheriffs' Office programs and to help promote the program at public gatherings.
Florida Sheriffs Teen Driver Challenge
Florida Sheriffs Association
Ganj Bhawanipur is a town and village development committee in Bara District in the Narayani zone of south-eastern Nepal. At the 2011 Nepal census, it had a population of 6,355 in 910 individual households. There were 3,262 males and 3,093 females at the time of the census.
UN map of the municipalities of Bara District
Swing Hostess is a 1944 American musical comedy film directed by Sam Newfield for Producers Releasing Corporation and starring Martha Tilton, Iris Adrian, Charles Collins, Betty Brodel, Cliff Nazarro and Harry Holman. The film's sets were designed by the art director Paul Palmentola.
A down-on-her-luck would-be singer keeps encountering roadblocks on her way to stardom. Judy Alvin has a fine voice but is no match for the politics of a musical producer pushing his girlfriend, the amazingly untalented Phoebe who has obtained employment by using a record of Judy's voice rather than hers.
Living at a theatrical boarding house with a variety of eccentric entertainers, Judy's best friend Marge is determined to find Judy a job to pay her bills that has something, anything, to do with music. A chance encounter with a Rock-Ola 3701 Master telephone juke box gets Judy employment at the company where the duties involve taking telephone calls from patrons of a bar selecting music to hear over loud speakers.
Martha Tilton - "Let's Capture That Moment" (Written by Jay Livingston, Ray Evans and Lewis Bellin)
Martha Tilton - "Say It With Love" (Written by Jay Livingston, Ray Evans and Lewis Bellin)
Betty Brodel - "Say It With Love"
Martha Tilton - "I'll Eat My Hat" (Written by Jay Livingston, Ray Evans and Lewis Bellin) Also performed as an instrumental at the Tropics Club
Martha Tilton, Iris Adrian, Earle Bruce, and Cliff Nazarro - "Highway Polka" (Written by Jay Livingston, Ray Evans and Lewis Bellin)
Martha Tilton - "Got an Invitation" (Written by Jay Livingston, Ray Evans and Lewis Bellin)
Martha Tilton - "Music to My Ears" (Written by Jay Livingston, Ray Evans and Lewis Bellin) Also sung twice by Betty Brodel
Swing Hostess at IMDb
Swing Hostess is available for free viewing and download at the Internet Archive
Guido Andreozzi was the defending champion but chose not to defend his title.
Thiago Seyboth Wild won the title after defeating Hugo Dellien 6–4, 6–0 in the final.
All seeds receive a bye into the second round.
Imaginary time is a mathematical representation of time that appears in some approaches to special relativity and quantum mechanics. It finds uses in certain cosmological theories.
Mathematically, imaginary time is real time which has undergone a Wick rotation so that its coordinates are multiplied by the imaginary unit i. Imaginary time is not imaginary in the sense that it is unreal or made-up; it is simply expressed in terms of imaginary numbers.
In mathematics, the imaginary unit
{\displaystyle i}
{\displaystyle {\sqrt {-1}}}
{\displaystyle i^{2}}
is defined to be
{\displaystyle -1}
. A number which is a direct multiple of
{\displaystyle i}
is known as an imaginary number. A number that is the sum of an imaginary number and a real number is known as a complex number.
In certain physical theories, periods of time are multiplied by
{\displaystyle i}
in this way. Mathematically, an imaginary time period
{\textstyle \tau }
may be obtained from real time
via a Wick rotation by
{\textstyle \pi /2}
in the complex plane:
{\textstyle \tau =it}
Stephen Hawking popularized the concept of imaginary time in his book The Universe in a Nutshell.
"One might think this means that imaginary numbers are just a mathematical game having nothing to do with the real world. From the viewpoint of positivist philosophy, however, one cannot determine what is real. All one can do is find which mathematical models describe the universe we live in. It turns out that a mathematical model involving imaginary time predicts not only effects we have already observed but also effects we have not been able to measure yet nevertheless believe in for other reasons. So what is real and what is imaginary? Is the distinction just in our minds?"
In fact, the terms "real" and "imaginary" for numbers are just a historical accident, much like the terms "rational" and "irrational":
"...the words real and imaginary are picturesque relics of an age when the nature of complex numbers was not properly understood."
In the Minkowski spacetime model adopted by the theory of relativity, spacetime is represented as a four-dimensional surface or manifold. Its four-dimensional equivalent of a distance in three-dimensional space is called an interval. Assuming that a specific time period is represented as a real number in the same way as a distance in space, an interval
{\displaystyle d}
in relativistic spacetime is given by the usual formula but with time negated:
{\displaystyle d^{2}=x^{2}+y^{2}+z^{2}-t^{2}}
{\displaystyle x}
{\displaystyle y}
{\displaystyle z}
are distances along each spatial axis and
{\displaystyle t}
is a period of time or "distance" along the time axis (Strictly, the time coordinate is
{\displaystyle (ct)^{2}}
{\displaystyle c}
is the speed of light, however we conventionally choose units such that
{\displaystyle c=1}
Mathematically this is equivalent to writing
{\displaystyle d^{2}=x^{2}+y^{2}+z^{2}+(it)^{2}}
In this context,
{\displaystyle i}
may be either accepted as a feature of the relationship between space and real time, as above, or it may alternatively be incorporated into time itself, such that the value of time is itself an imaginary number, denoted by
{\displaystyle \tau }
. The equation may then be rewritten in normalised form:
{\displaystyle d^{2}=x^{2}+y^{2}+z^{2}+\tau ^{2}}
Similarly its four vector may then be written as
{\displaystyle (x_{0},x_{1},x_{2},x_{3})}
where distances are represented as
{\displaystyle x_{n}}
{\displaystyle x_{0}=ict}
{\displaystyle c}
is the speed of light and time is imaginary.
Hawking noted the utility of rotating time intervals into an imaginary metric in certain situations, in 1971.
In physical cosmology, imaginary time may be incorporated into certain models of the universe which are solutions to the equations of general relativity. In particular, imaginary time can help to smooth out gravitational singularities, where known physical laws break down, to remove the singularity and avoid such breakdowns (see Hartle–Hawking state). The Big Bang, for example, appears as a singularity in ordinary time but, when modelled with imaginary time, the singularity can be removed and the Big Bang functions like any other point in four-dimensional spacetime. Any boundary to spacetime is a form of singularity, where the smooth nature of spacetime breaks down. With all such singularities removed from the Universe, it thus can have no boundary and Stephen Hawking speculated that "the boundary condition to the Universe is that it has no boundary".
However, the unproven nature of the relationship between actual physical time and imaginary time incorporated into such models has raised criticisms. Roger Penrose has noted that there needs to be a transition from the Riemannian metric (often referred to as "Euclidean" in this context) with imaginary time at the Big Bang to a Lorentzian metric with real time for the evolving Universe. Also, modern observations suggest that the Universe is open and will never shrink back to a Big Crunch. If this proves true, then the end-of-time boundary still remains.
Euclidean quantum gravity
Multiple time dimensions
Hawking, Stephen W. (1998). A Brief History of Time (Tenth Anniversary Commemorative ed.). Bantam Books. p. 157. ISBN 978-0-553-10953-5.
Mahan, Gerald D. (2000). "Chapter 3". Many-Particle Physics (3rd ed.). Springer. ISBN 0-306-46338-5.
Zee, A. (2003). "Chapter V.2". Quantum field theory in a nutshell. Princeton University Press. ISBN 0-691-01019-6.
The Beginning of Time — Lecture by Stephen Hawking which discusses imaginary time.
Stephen Hawking's Universe: Strange Stuff Explained Archived 2016-03-03 at the Wayback Machine — PBS site on imaginary time.
Ebenus cretica, common name Cretan ebony, is a leguminous small shrub in the family Fabaceae.
Ebenus cretica can reach a height of 50–100 centimetres (20–39 in). This perennial flowering plant has composite pubescent leaves and bright pink or purple flowers, on 5–20 centimetres (2.0–7.9 in) long racemes. These flowers bloom from late March to June.
This species is native to the Mediterranean island of Crete. It grows on rocky hillsides or on steep cliffs, at an elevation of 0–600 metres (0–1,969 ft) above sea level.
Encyclopedia of Life entry
"Ebenus cretica". Germplasm Resources Information Network. Agricultural Research Service, United States Department of Agriculture.
J.C. Vlahos and M. Dragassaki Propagation of Cretan Silver Bush (Ebenus cretica L.), A Potential New Flower Crop
Macruromys is a genus of rodent in the family Muridae endemic to New Guinea.
It contains the following species:
Lesser small-toothed rat (M. elegans)
Eastern small-toothed rat (M. major)
Musser, G. G.; Carleton, M. D. (2005). "Superfamily Muroidea". In Wilson, D. E.; Reeder, D. M. (eds.). Mammal Species of the World: A Taxonomic and Geographic Reference (3rd ed.). Johns Hopkins University Press. pp. 1352–1353. ISBN 978-0-8018-8221-0. OCLC 62265494.
Kalabukay Festival (Kalabukay: Cuyunon word for red-vented cockatoo) is an annual celebration for the foundation day of the municipality of Dumaran, Palawan in the Philippines. It is also the celebration of the successful preservation of the endangered bird called Katala or Kalabukay and also for the preservation of natural resources of the island.
The Kalabukay festival started in 2005 with the effort of the Katala Foundation and the local government of Dumaran. The five-day celebration from 14th to 18 June includes an opening parade, booth exhibit, tree planting, coastal clean-up, basketball competition, and the highlight of the celebration: "Search For Miss Kalabukay".
Once and Future King Part I is the fourth studio album released by Gary Hughes.
All songs written by Gary Hughes.
"Excalibur" – 6:22
"Dragon Island Cathedral" – 6:03
"At the End of Day" – 4:30
"The Reason Why" – 4:36
"Shapeshifter" – 4:45
"King for a Day" – 4:47
"In Flames" – 5:03
Damian Wilson – (Track 1)
Gary Hughes – King Arthur (Tracks 2, 3 and 10)
Lana Lane – Queen Guinevere (Track 3)
Danny Vaughn – Lancelot (Tracks 4 and 7)
Irene Jansen – Morgana (Track 5)
Bob Catley – Merlin (Tracks 6 and 9)
Sean Harris – Sir Galahad (Track 8)
Gary Hughes – guitar, piano, keyboards, backing vocals and programming
Chris Francis – guitars
John Halliwell – guitars
Steve McKenna – Bass guitars
Greg Morgan – drums and percussion
Arjen Lucassen – keyboards (Track 1)
Paul Hodson – piano and keyboards (Track 6)
Graham Woodcock – keyboards (Track 8)
Jason Thanos – backing vocals
Damian Wilson – backing vocals
Mixing – Pete Coleman
Engineer – Gary Hughes
Additional Engineering – Pete Coleman, Audu Obaje, Arjen Lucassen, Erik Norlander, Billy Churchill and Jason Thanos
Heavy Harmonies page
Baryssinus chemsaki is a species of longhorn beetle in the family Cerambycidae. It was described by Monné in 1985.
Appare Jipangu! (天晴じぱんぐ！; "Bravo Jipangu!") is a manga by Yuu Watase. Set in Japan during the Edo period, it follows the life of Yusura, who as a baby, was found under a cherry tree with the "Kongoumaru" (a staff that turns blue when people are sad) by her side. Now fifteen years later, Yusura has become the "hikeshiya" (or "extinguisher of sorrow") and uses the Kongoumaru to 'absorb' people's sadness and hit it back at the people that caused it.
As a child was abandoned by her birth parents and found under a cherry tree. Now the "hikeshiya", she goes around healing people's sadness with her Kongoumaru (金剛丸). Although she loves her adoptive parents, Yusura is still trying to find her birth parents.
Hot-headed and tomboy-ish, she dresses like a boy, and the inability of new characters to identify her gender serves as a running joke through the series. Later she falls in love with Samon. She is 15 years old. Kongomaru was her staff.
A member of the royal family, he is the son of the daimyō. However, his mother was a prostitute and the Daimyo was not too happy to learn of his existence. Yusura met him after saving him from some assassins.
Samon is practically blind and has difficulty seeing without his glasses, often mistaking other objects for Yusura. Then later he falls for Yusura.
He's Yusura's very funny foster brother who always teases her, and he helps her with all the sadness business. Then he came along on her journey to find her real parents. He also likes to play with skeleton puppets that scare people.
A ninja whose special power is a bubble attack. After meeting Yusura and her gang, he is hired by Samon to become his bodyguard. However, he is quite fond of hiding in Yusura's shadow instead. A Cola Ninja from the village of Coca. It is hinted that he loves Yusura.
Loves to invent random things. Much of the time they are more of a hindrance than a help but all are amusing. He is a pharmacist.
One of Samon's servants.
Surprisingly, this manga was made around the time of one of her most popular works, Ayashi no Ceres. In one of her "free talk pages," (where the manga artist can talk to her fans about her daily life or things relating to the manga or promoting other works.) She said that the reason why there is such a big difference between the two manga's art is because Ayashi no Ceres is more "Dark and serious," so she gave it a more realistic art style. Appare is drawn with a more typical wide-eyed shōjo look.
This manga had an unusual publishing schedule. In a shōjo manga magazine, there is a restricted number of pages that manga artist can only draw in (16 for weekly shōnen manga and 32–34 for typical monthly shōjo manga). Appare was licensed by Flower Comics, but never ran in the magazine. Instead it was independent and immediately went out to the public in volumes. Watase stated that she did not want to go with the deadlines for the magazine because it was such a light-hearted story that she wanted to go at her own pace. As a result, there were huge gaps between volume publications.
The series was published in Spain by Glénat España as ¡Viva Japón!. A French version was published by Editions Tonkam, but retained the title Appare Jipangu! It was also published in Italy by Planet Manga.
Appare Jipangu! (manga) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
Built Like Alaska is an indie rock band from Oakdale, California, USA. Forming shortly after Jackson's return to Oakdale from Humboldt State University in 1996, the band began playing local dives, dumps and police bars as a three-piece outfit. Signing with Grandaddy's Sweat of the Alps label, they released their début full-length, Hopalong, in 2003. They attracted the attention of a larger indie label, Future Farmer, who released album number two, Autumnland, and re-released Hopalong, both in 2005. Also in 2005, the band provided the score for Scott Coffey's film Ellie Parker and spent a good deal of the summer touring the U.S. In 2011 Built Like Alaska released their 3rd album In Troubled Times... on now defunct Future Farmer (re-released 2019 on Way Grimace Records). 2020 brings the release of a long-awaited 4th record entitled Apartments on Way Grimace Records. After 20 years in the making and many failed attempts at completing the record, it seems that the 11 song album will tell the stories of the residents of a ramshackle apartment complex in which Jackson used to work at as an on site "fix it man".
This Song Will Bury You (2000, self-released)
Hopalong (2003, Sweat of the Alps; 2005, Future Farmer)
Pamphlets and Films EP (2003, self-released)
Autumnland (2005, Sweat of the Alps/Future Farmer)
Don't Mess With X-Mas (2010, self-released)
In Troubled Times (2011, Future Farmer)
The Coldest Carnie's Heart (2019, self-released)
Apartments (January 2020, Way Grimace Records)
If You Rearrange the Letters It Spells Satan (1997) (song: "Visions Of Teela")
Sleeping Off Stolen Dreams (2001, Little Echoes) (song: "Ain't No Bridgegroom")
Portraits: 32 Singers, 32 Songs (2010, Off the Air) (song: "Red Eye")
Autumnland in PopMatters
Autumland in Stylus Magazine
In Troubled Times... in The Aquarian
Built Like Alaska bio, Future Farmer
Built Like Alaska—Oakdale's Finest, SF Station, August 10, 2007.
Autumnland, Malcolm Sosa, Fresno Famous, February 17, 2005.
Official website
Built Like Alaska at AllMusic
Vincent A. De Gaetano (born 17 August 1952) is a Maltese judge, serving since 2010 as judge of the European Court of Human Rights in respect of Malta. He retired in September 2019 as Section President.
De Gaetano succeeded Giovanni Bonello, who, together with two other candidates, had been proposed in 1998 by then Prime Minister Alfred Sant. The election of a Maltese judge for the ECHR had been protracting since 2004, with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe twice rejecting the Maltese Government's all-male lists.
De Gaetano had served from 2002 till 2010 as Chief Justice of Malta.
He was Vice President of Section IV till September 2018, and President till September 2019, when he retired and was succeeded as ECHR judge for Malta by Lorraine Schembri Orland.
He is currently serving as Commissioner for Education within the office of the Ombudsman.
The Cherry Creek campaign occurred in March 1890 and was one of the final conflicts between hostile Apaches and the United States Army. It began after a small group of Apaches killed a freight wagon operator, near the San Carlos Reservation, and was part of the larger Apache campaign, beginning in 1889, to round up Apaches who had left the reservations. The American army fought a skirmish with the Apaches near Globe, Arizona, at the mouth of Cherry Creek, which resulted in the deaths of two hostiles and the capture of the remaining three. Two men received the Medal of Honor for their service during the campaign.
Following Geronimo's final surrender in September 1886, the majority of the Apache people were sent to either Florida or Alabama as prisoners of war. Only a few companies of Apache Scouts and some small bands of hostiles remained in the southwest. One of the Apaches was the famous Indian scout known as the Apache Kid. After leaving the army in 1887, the Apache Kid was arrested near Globe, Arizona in 1889 and sentenced to several years in the Yuma Territorial Prison for the attempted murder of Albert Sieber, the chief of the Apache scouts. However, during the transfer to Yuma, the Apache Kid and a handful of his followers escaped police custody and killed two people in what has been called the Kelvin Grade Massacre. In response, the United States Army launched an operation to catch the Apache Kid and the other Apaches who were out raiding across southern Arizona, New Mexico and northern Mexico. The Kid and his gang were not the only Apaches operating off the reservation. There were several other small bands causing mischief, most notably that of Massai. Another former Apache scout, Massai is suspected of being responsible for a number of deaths in Arizona that were often attributed to the Apache Kid. But even after Massai there were others. On March 2, 1890, a group of five "drunken" Apaches killed a wagon driver named Herbert and stole two large horses, about ten miles west of Fort Thomas and the San Carlos reservation. At the time, Fort Thomas was home to Troop K of the 10th Cavalry Buffalo Soldiers, under the command of Lieutenant Powhatan Clarke, a Medal of Honor recipient who fought in Geronimo's War.
As soon as the army learned of the ambush, Lieutenant Clarke was ordered by the Department of Arizona's commander, Major General Benjamin Grierson, to take ten men "into the field" on an expedition where "every possible effort [was] made to capture or destroy the murderers." At the site of the ambush, the cavalrymen joined Lieutenant James Watson, 10th Cavalry, a small force of 4th Cavalry, and some Apache scouts. From there the scouts discovered hoofprints and a trail leading to the northwest towards the Salt River. According to General Grierson, they "persistently followed [the trail] for several days and nights over the rough, broken mountains and plains of Arizona." Eventually the cavalrymen and the Apache scouts were running low on rations so they were supplied with a cow, some coffee and some salt by a generous rancher. Some time after that, Sergeant Alexander Cheatham, I Troop, 10th Cavalry, led reinforcements, a wagon and several mules, packed with food, to the expedition from San Carlos after a nighttime march of forty-five miles. A veteran of the American Civil War, and over twenty years on the frontier, Sergeant Cheatham was able to track Lieutenants Clarke and Watson's men over rugged desert and mountain terrain in the dark. The expedition finally caught up with the Apaches in a canyon of the Salt River on March 7, approximately 200 miles from Fort Thomas and about thirty miles northeast of Globe. After entering the canyon, the terrain became very rough so the hostiles killed their horses and continued fleeing on foot. For the same reason the Apache scouts were ordered to dismount and go ahead of the cavalry to try and draw the hostiles into battle.
The pursuit through the canyon was so dangerous that at some points the scouts had to lie down and crawl through the narrow passages to trace the hostile Apaches' footprints. The cavalrymen waited down at the river to water the horses but, at about 12:00 pm, the scouts made contact with the fugitives, near the mouth of Cherry Creek. Lieutenants Clarke and Watson heard the firing from the river and immediately they proceeded towards the sound. Clarke recalled that he felt "a calm chill looking for a live Indian with a gun down in one of these great canyons." Not long after that, the cavalrymen were under fire and they assisted the scouts in trapping the hostiles within a "three-sided tangle of boulders." The Apache fugitives put up a "hard fight" but were eventually forced to retreat into a "shallow cave" as the expedition surrounded and moved in on their position. In the cave the hostiles were safe from direct fire so "one of the sergeants, an excellent shot," began "firing against a rock almost in front of their cave, thereby splatter[ing] lead and splintered rock in their faces." When the soldiers and the scouts closed to within fifty yards of the cave's entrance, they prepared to make a charge but the Apaches decided to surrender, having lost three killed or wounded out of five men.
Four men from the 10th Cavalry, 4th Cavalry, and the Apache scouts received either "official recognition" or medals from the army for their involvement in the skirmish. Sergeant William McBryar of the 10th Cavalry, Sergeant Rowdy of the Apache scouts, and Sergeant James T. Daniels of the 4th Cavalry were awarded the Medal of Honor. McBryar received his for "coolness, bravery and marksmanship," he and Rowdy were the last Medal of Honor recipients for service during the Apache Wars. General Grierson later said; "This [skirmish] is one of the most brilliant affairs of its kind that has occurred in recent years and has had a very quieting effect upon, and will no doubt prove a lasting lesson to, the Indians of the San Carlos Agency. It was, therefore, extremely gratifying to congratulate the commanding officers of San Carlos and Fort Thomas, and especially Lieutenants Watson and Clarke and the troops under their command for the persistent pursuit and complete success. Such service in the execution of duty merits the highest praise and affords an excellent example of what promptness and indefatigable exertion may accomplish in the face of almost insurmountable obstacles. It was recommended that substantial recognition be promptly awarded in the way of brevets to the officers and medals to the enlisted men who took part in the engagement." Though five Apaches had been captured, the army's campaign against other off reservation Apaches continued because the Apache Kid was still at large. On March 10, just three days after the Cherry Creek engagement, General Grierson "authorized the arrest and removal of seventy-six Indians, relatives and friends of Kid and other Apaches, who were known to be in sympathy with the fugitives." General Grierson reported that he "did this as a measure of precaution and asked that [his] action be approved by the honorable Secretary of War, that proper arrangements might be made for their care and sustenance at Fort Union to which post they were sent under suitable guard. Since the arrival of Indian prisoners at Fort Union, in accordance with instructions received from Washington, twelve Indian children were selected from among them, and sent to the Kamona Indian school at Santa Fe, N. Mex." The rest eventually went to live at Mount Vernon Barracks, in Alabama, with other Apache prisoners.
Skeleton Canyon shootout
Cherry Creek ruins
Apache–Mexico Wars
United States Congress (1891). Congressional edition, Volume 2831. United States Government Printing Office.
Schubert, Frank N. (2009). Black Valor: Buffalo Soldiers and the Medal of Honor, 1870–1898. Rowman & Littlefield. ISBN 978-1442201934.
Robinson, Sherry (2003). Apache Voices: Their Stories of Survival as Told to Eve Ball. University of New Mexico Press. ISBN 0826321631.
Queen Street may refer to:
Queen Street, Brisbane
Queen Street, Fremantle
Queen Street, Melbourne
Queen Street, Woollahra, Sydney
Queen Street, Hamilton
Queen Street, Ottawa
Queen Street, Toronto
Queen Street East, Brampton (Peel Regional Road 107), in Brampton, Ontario
Queen Street West, Brampton (Peel Regional Road 6), in Brampton, Ontario
Queen Street, Burslem, Stoke-on-Trent
Queen Street, London, in the City of London
Queen Street, Mayfair, London
Queen Street, Oxford
Queen Street, Glasgow
Queen Street, Edinburgh
Queen Street, Cardiff, Wales
Queen Street (Boston, Massachusetts), a previous name of Court Street
Queen Street, Auckland, New Zealand
Queen Street, Dublin, Ireland
Queen Street, Singapore
Queen Street station (disambiguation)
Great Queen Street, London
All pages with titles containing Queen Street
Graeme Hogan (born 15 March 1966) is an Australian cricketer. He played in one List A match for Queensland in 1991/92.
List of Queensland first-class cricketers
Graeme Hogan at Cricinfo
Kambadakone (alternatively Khambadakone), is a village in Byndoor Taluk, Udupi District, Karnataka, India. As per the census of India 2011, the total population of Kadambakone village is 3806, of which 1819 are males and 1987 are females. The name comes from the Kadamba Empire, which once ruled this area. The livelihood of the people in the village mainly depends on agriculture and fishing. The nearest railway stations are Bijoor Railway Station and Mookamabika Railway Station Byndoor.
Kambadakone has a literacy rate of 75%. Some students quit school every year to work at the local fisheries and farms. The village has several primary and middle schools, one high school, and one college, Government Pre University College Kambadaone. The college offers secondary education in arts, commerce, and science with different specializations. Most of the teaching is done in either English or Kannada.
Bitton is a surname (spelled ביטון in Hebrew) that is common among North African Sephardim. It comes from 'vita', life.
Notable people with this name include:
Amit Bitton (born 1996), Israeli footballer
Ben Bitton (born 1991), Israeli footballer
Davis Bitton (1930–2007), American history professor and Assistant Church Historian of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Isaac Bitton (born 1947), French-American musician
Isaac Bitton (boxer) (1779–1839), Dutch Jewish bare-knuckle boxer
Jean-Luc Bitton (born 1959), French writer and journalist
Nir Bitton (born 1991), Israeli footballer
Naor Bitton, Israeli political activist and community leader
Raquel Bitton (fl. 1980–present), French singer, actress and playwright
Shimon Bitton (born 1967), Israeli former footballer
Simone Bitton (born 1955), French-Moroccan documentary filmmaker
Thomas Bitton (died 1307), Bishop of Exeter
Yifat Bitton (born 1971?), Israeli law professor and activist
Yosef Bittón, Argentinian-born rabbi and former Chief Rabbi of Uruguay
William of Bitton (died 1264), Roman Catholic Bishop of Bath and Wells
William of Bitton (nephew) (died 1274), Roman Catholic Bishop of Bath and Wells
Livia Bitton-Jackson (1931–2023), Czech author and Holocaust survivor
Thomas Bytton, Anglican Dean of Wells between 1284 and 1292
Biton, a Jewish surname
Byton (disambiguation)
Johnny Was is an Irish/English gangster movie directed by Mark Hammond, written by Brendan Foley, and made in 2005 by Ben Katz Productions, Borderline Productions and Nordisk Film. It was released in the UK in 2006 by Sony Pictures and in the US by First Look Studios.
Johnny Doyle escapes a violent past as a Provisional IRA volunteer in Ireland to lie low in London, until his former mentor Flynn breaks out of Brixton Prison, members of a dissident republican group they are hellbent on derailing the Irish peace process with a few well-placed bombs. Unable to escape Brixton, they find themselves trapped together in Johnny's anything-but-safe safe house, sandwiched between a friendly Rastafarian reggae pirate radio station upstairs and a local Yardie, heroin-dealing gangster Julius, downstairs.
As the charismatic Flynn finds some common criminal ground with the Yardies, Johnny fights to realize a peace process of his own but makes the mistake of falling for Julius's girlfriend Rita, sparking an all-out war.
It is a London-based thriller in the vein of The Long Good Friday, in which questions of race, morality, identity and loyalty play out against a soundtrack of reggae, rock, new wave, soul and drum and bass.
Vinnie Jones - Johnny Doyle
Eriq La Salle - Julius
Patrick Bergin - Flynn
Samantha Mumba - Rita
Lennox Lewis - Ras
Wilson Jermaine Heredia - Sparra
Roger Daltrey - Jimmy
Johnny Was was principally financed by Ben Katz Productions, the Northern Ireland Film and Television Commission, the Irish Film Board, and Nordisk.
The scene set in Brixton Market was actually filmed at Smithfield Market in Belfast. Many of the other shots were taken in various locations around Northern Ireland. Lisburn railway station was used as a substitute for Brixton railway station.
Roger Daltrey, the lead singer of The Who, played Jimmy Nolan. Patrick Bergin had previously played a member of the Provisional Irish Republican Army in Patriot Games.
Variety gave a good review to the original reggae soundtrack by Adrian Sherwood.
Johnny Was at IMDb
Johnny Was at Rotten Tomatoes
The Blériot XXXVI Torpille was an observation monoplane designed in France by Louis Bleriot during the early 1910s. The Blériot XXXVIbis La Vache was operated by Jules Védrines on several daring missions behind enemy lines in the early months of the war.
Data from General characteristics
Length: 8.33 m (27 ft 4 in)
Wingspan: 12.25 m (40 ft 2 in)
Wing area: 25 m2 (270 sq ft)
Empty weight: 375 kg (827 lb)
Powerplant: 1 × Gnome Lambda 7-cylinder air-cooled rotary piston engine, 60 kW (80 hp)
Propellers: 2-bladed
Maximum speed: 115 km/h (71 mph, 62 kn)
Hannah Beatriz Dunne (born April 8, 1990) is an American actress. She is the daughter of actors Griffin Dunne and Carey Lowell, the granddaughter of writer and journalist Dominick Dunne and the niece of actress Dominique Dunne. She is best known for her portrayal of Lizzie Campbell in the Amazon TV series Mozart in the Jungle.
Hannah Dunne at IMDb
The 1923–24 Williams Ephs men's ice hockey season was the 21st season of play for the program.
Despite a successful season the year before, Williams had to replace the hockey team's coach with Ralph Cordingly. The team assembled in early December though, without any available ice, the candidates were forced to use the gymnasium for the tryouts. As the team was gearing up for their rapid-fire schedule at the end of December, some of the players attempted to get ice time on an individual basis at the rinks around Boston and New York but the first time the team would appear on the ice would be the opening match on Boxing Day.
From December 26 through January 1, the Williams ice hockey team played one game a day and came away with a surprisingly strong record. The first four-game took place at Lake Placid In the opening match against Dartmouth, neither team had been able to get much practice in ahead of time and the game was considerably slowed when the surface cracked and allowed water to seep up from below. Poor ice continued in the next two matches with Amherts, the first of which was also held in blizzard conditions. The teams played about as well as could be expected but after two overtimes and no goals to show for their efforts, the first match was called a draw. Williams finally got its first goals of the season in its third match and rode a second consecutive shutout from Lowes to its first win on the year. Despite playing so many games in such a short time, the Ephs looked better as their trip went along. Nowhere was this fact more evident than the match against Yale; the Bulldogs had been playing together since mid-November and were one of the best teams in the nation but were still only able to get a single goal past Lowes. While the offense wasn't able to conjure up a goal, the play of the team in the game demonstrated just how good the team could be if they had adequate facilities.
The team took an overnight train to Buffalo for a match on New Year's Eve but found that the local rink had been made unusable by a thaw. Frank Baird helped the team quickly gain the use of a rink at Port Colborne, about 25 miles away from Buffalo, and hastily played a game against a local aggregation. Though informal, it was the first game outside the United States in the history of the program. The following night the team played its scheduled game against the Nichols Club, a team made mostly of former college players. The defense remained a formidable asset for the team and helped them to their second win of the year.
Williams returned home after their hectic opening to the season and found that the weather had not been kind. The rink on Weston Field was still out of sorts and the team had to practice on Leake's Pond. They were able to eventually get some time in on the artificial rink but only briefly. The team was supposed to kick off its home slate with a game against Middlebury on January 12, however, that game was cancelled due to poor ice conditions. The first home game didn't come until the following week when YMCA College came to town, however, the layoff had not the team any favors. For the fourth time in six games, Williams was held without a goal and the Ephs wasted an outstanding performance from their goaltender. Soft, slushy ice and a late rain limited the game to just 30 minutes and slowing the players down but it was the defensive efforts of the visitors that prevented any Eph from finding the twine. Just 15 shots were attempted by the two teams combined but it was enough to hand Williams another loss. With the poor ice refusing to clear up, a match with Bates was postponed until the 22nd. When it finally was held, the team looked completely disorganized and fell 1–4. On an individual basis, the Purple players appeared to be better than their northern counterparts, however, the severe lack of practice left them playing as solitary figures rather than a team. Superior teamwork, particularly with regards to passing, led to the team's downfall. Captain Stephenson was moved back to defense in place of Pressprich while Popham assumed the role at left wing but that change didn't provide any tangible benefit. Stephenson's first goal of the season was the only marker Williams could manage and the team was forced back to the drawing board.
The exam break put the team on the sidelines for two weeks when what it really needed was practice, but that move was unavoidable. When the team did finally resume the season, they welcomed Amherst for the Ephs' final home match on the year. In the interim the team had been able to address some of their issues and coach Cordingly had inserted Pressprich at left wing. Both squads were evenly matched throughout the game but the Lord Jeffs held a narrow lead in the third and were trying to squeeze out a close win. Pressprich scored with just 2 minutes remaining to ruin those plans and forced the old foes into an overtime battle. The first two 5-minute periods ended with no additional goals so a second pair of overtimes was agreed upon. Tired out by the pace of the game, the Ephs' defense allowed two goals in the third and fourth overtimes and handed bragging rights, at least temporarily, to Amherst. The rematch happened a week later at Amherst with a freshman, Russ, being inserted at right wing while Stephenson and Pressprich were returned to their former position. Unfortunately, the team was still unable to get its offense going and was blanked yet again.
Williams travelled down to Connecticut for their second game of the year against Yale and were completely overwhelmed by the nation-leading Elis. Having learned from their previous game, the Bulldogs didn't take the Ephs lightly and assailed the Purple cage all game. Yale outshot Williams 18–64 using a bevy of substitutes in the game to keep their players fresh. In spite of the result, Williams played its best game in over a month and Lowes was hailed for his performance in goal as the score would have been much worse than 0–5 without him. The experience gained in recent weeks ended up paid dividends as the Ephs were finally able to get their offense going against the Mass Aggies. Stephenson had one of the most outstanding individual performances by scoring all 5 goals for his team but the credit for each marker needed to be shared with the rest of the team as each goal came as a result of a pass from behind the Aggies' goal.
A miscommunication between Williams and Army caused the next game to be played as an exhibition match. The managers for Williams had assumed the game would take place in the afternoon, as normal. With that in mind, Lowes made arrangements to arrive in West Point around noon. Army, however, had scheduled the match to take place at 10:30 A.M. and the contest would have been over by the time he arrived. Feeling that it would be unfair to ask Williams to play without its regular goal guard, Army offered not only to loan the Ephs their backup netminder but to also not count the game as an official match. The following day the team win in Morristown, New Jersey taking on a contingent of country club players. With Lowes in goal the Ephs easily defeated the golfers and then returned home to practice for their final matches of the year.
The Ephs headed out at the end of February to take on the Albany Country Club but the game was cancelled due to poor ice conditions. The following day the team met Hamilton and fought to a draw. Hamilton, having won 8 of their 10 games, was expected to win the match with relative ease but the Ephs were far better than their record would indicate. With a good ice surface, the Williams contingent was able to demonstrate just how fast it was and routinely broke away for rushes towards the Continental goal. Stephenson, Pressprich and Lowes were each playing their final college games and were vital in keeping Hamilton from scoring. Chase and Watkins provided the two Williams goals while the two teams went scoreless in overtime and ended with a respectable, if unsatisfying, end to their seasons.
Benjamin Fawcett served as team manager with Frank Gummey as his assistant.
Note: The first goal in the game against the Morris Country Club was deflected in off of a player's shin but neither the name nor team of that player was reported.
Hartnell is an English surname. Notable people with this surname include the following:
Andy Hartnell, American comic book writer
Bryan Calvin Hartnell, only survivor of the Zodiac Killer in California, 1969
John Hartnell, English seaman and explorer on Franklin's lost expedition to find the Northwest Passage
Sir Norman Hartnell (1901–1979), English fashion designer
Scott Hartnell (born 1982), Canadian professional ice hockey player
Tim Hartnell (1951–1991), an Australian journalist
William Hartnell (1908–1975), English actor who portrayed the First Doctor in the BBC's Doctor Who
William Edward Petty Hartnell otherwise Don Guillermo Arnel (1798–1854), English-born merchant and administrator in California
Hartnell (horse) (foaled 2011), a British racehorse,
Hartnoll - as a surname
Hartwell (disambiguation)
Hartnell College
Within the field of psychology, Averil Leimon is an author, executive coach, leadership psychologist and was one of the first UK-based psychologists qualified in the academic field of positive psychology. Leimon is the joint editor of The Essential Coaching Series from academic publisher Routledge and is co-author of Essential Business Coaching and Coaching Women to Lead. She is also the co-author of Positive Psychology for Dummies and Performance Coaching for Dummies and the author of 100 lessons on happiness in 100 words or less.
Leimon is also co-founder of business consultancy White Water Group.
Leimon gained a masters degree in Clinical Psychology at the University of Glasgow and a BA (Honours) in Psychology at Strathclyde University. She is a major contributor of psychological insight to television (BBC, CNN), radio (BBC Radio 4 Woman's Hour), newspapers (FT, City A.M) and magazines (Women in Business, Cosmopolitan). She is also a member of and a speaker for the British Psychological Society.
Coaching Women to Lead, Routledge (East Sussex, UK), 2011
100 Lessons on Happiness in 100 words or less, Visual Aid Publishing Ltd (London, UK), 2011
Essential Business Coaching, Routledge (East Sussex, UK), 2010
Positive Psychology for Dummies, John Wiley & Sons (West Sussex, UK), 2009
Performance Coaching for Dummies, John Wiley & Sons (West Sussex, UK), 2008
Official website
Saheed Akorede Babatunde Okunola (born 7 August 1970), also known by the stage names Saheed Osupa or King Saheed Osupa (K.S.O.), is a Nigerian Fuji, musician, film actor, and hip Fuji creator.
Saheed osupa is a family man, who has a huge family. He is married to two wives, whose names are Azeezat and olabisi muinat and also have a total of 8 children- six- sons and two daughters.
Saheed Osupa was born in the Mosafejo area of Ajegunle, Lagos State but grew up in Ibadan, the capital of Oyo State. His father, Moshood Ajiwere Layeye, was a Wéré music artist and also an elder cousin of Fuji musician Ayinde Barrister.
Osupa went to Amuwo Odofin High School in Lagos, and graduated in 1987. In 1992, he completed his National Diploma programme at The Polytechnic, Ibadan after studying Business Administration. He is an alumnus of the American International College, where he studied Networking Operations.
Osupa started music professionally as a teenager in 1983 as a Fuji artiste. His first album was titled Fuji Fa Disco, followed by Fuji Blues. He has released over 40 studio albums, including a 4-in-1 studio album titled Mr. Music. In 2008, Osupa was declared the "King of Fuji Music" by Ayinde Barrister.
On 20 December 2014, Osupa released a hip hop single titled "Vanakula" produced by K-Solo. On 13 April 2015, he released another K-Solo-produced single titled "African Beauty" with vocals from Yetunde Omobadan. On 8 August 2015, he featured Seriki in another single titled "Womi".
On 7 November 2015, Osupa was listed among The NET's "Most Successful Nigerian musicians".
On 12 June 2018, Osupa released his first hip Fuji album, Non-Stop.
Osupa has appeared in over 30 Yoruba films. Some of the popular films that featured him include
Osupa and Wasiu Alabi Pasuma have had a rivalry. Osupa released about 10 records addressing their feud. The feud continued into 2012. Osupa claimed that several fruitless peace meetings took place in 2010 and 2011.
Dynamism (13 August 2018)
Integrity (07/08/2019)
Permutation (23 December 2019)
Special request-2 nd 1 (05/07/2020)
Eni Olohun (2020)
Permutation(2020)
Special Request (2020)
What Next (2020)
Power of Music (2022)
Fuji Template (2022)
Phenomenon (2023)
Everlasting And Oracle (2024)
GODSENT (Album, 2024)
Oracle (Album, 2024)
Everlasting (Album, 2024)
Acapella & Metamorphosis (Album, 2026)
New resolution (2017)
Saheed Osupa at IMDb
Halovibrio is a genus of bacteria from the family Halomonadaceae.
Patriarch Gregory I may refer to:
Gregory I of Constantinople, Patriarch in 379–381
Gregory of Bulgaria, Patriarch of Bulgaria c. 940 – c. 960
Patriarch Gregory I of Alexandria, Greek Patriarch of Alexandria in 1243–1263
The 2012 Asian Water Polo Championship for men and women was held from 24 to 27 January 2012 at the Chiba International General Swimming Center near Tokyo, Japan.
The winners of this championship (both men and women) qualified directly for the 2012 Olympic Games in London. The second- and third-placed teams (both men and women) were eligible to participate in the World Olympic qualification tournament, held 1–8 April 2012 for men in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, and 15–22 April for women in Trieste, Italy. However, only the Kazakhstan women's team applied to take part.
Official website (Japan Swimming Federation)
Doris J. Schattschneider (née Wood) is an American mathematician, a retired professor of mathematics at Moravian College. She is known for writing about tessellations and about the art of M. C. Escher, for helping Martin Gardner validate and popularize the pentagon tiling discoveries of amateur mathematician Marjorie Rice, and for co-directing with Eugene Klotz the project that developed The Geometer's Sketchpad.
Schattschneider was born in Staten Island; her mother, Charlotte Lucile Ingalls Wood, taught Latin and was herself the daughter of a Staten Island school principal, and her father, Robert W. Wood, Jr., was an electrical engineer who worked for the New York City Bureau of Bridge Design. Her family moved to Lake Placid, New York during World War II, while her father served as an engineer for the U. S. Army; she began her schooling in Lake Placid, but returned to Staten Island after the war. She did her undergraduate studies in mathematics at the University of Rochester, and earned a Ph.D. in 1966 from Yale University under the joint supervision of Tsuneo Tamagawa and Ichirô Satake with the thesis, Restricted Roots of a Semi-simple Algebraic Group. She taught at Northwestern University for a year and at the University of Illinois at Chicago Circle for three years before joining the faculty of Moravian College in 1968, where she remained for 34 years until her retirement. She was the first female editor of Mathematics Magazine, from 1981 to 1985.
She was married for 54 years to the Rev. Dr. David A. Schattschneider (1939-2016), a church historian and Dean of Moravian Theological Seminary; their daughter Laura Ellen Schattschneider is a lawyer.
Marjorie Rice was an amateur mathematician in San Diego who became fascinated by Martin Gardner’s descriptions of tessellations by pentagonal tiles in Scientific American. She investigated, and devising her own notation system, found a previously unknown type of pentagon tiling by February 1976. She drew up several tessellations by these new pentagon tiles and mailed her discoveries to Martin Gardner. He, in turn, sent Rice's work to Schattschneider, who was an expert in tiling patterns. Schattschneider was skeptical at first, but upon careful examination, was able to validate Rice's results. Schattschneider not only helped Martin Gardner publicize the pentagon tilings discoveries of Rice, but lauded her work as a significant discovery by an amateur mathematician.
In 1995, at a regional meeting of the Mathematical Association of America held in Los Angeles, Schattschneider convinced Rice and her husband to attend her lecture on Rice's work. At the conclusion of the talk, Schattschneider introduced the amateur mathematician who had advanced the study of tessellation. "And everybody in the room . . . gave her a standing ovation."
Schattschneider won the Mathematical Association of America's Carl B. Allendoerfer Award for excellence in expository writing in Mathematics Magazine in 1979, for her article "Tiling the plane with congruent pentagons".
In 1993, she (among others) received the Deborah and Franklin Haimo Award for Distinguished College or University Teaching of Mathematics.
In 2012, she became a fellow of the American Mathematical Society.
She delivered the Martin Gardner Lecture at MathFest in August 2021.
M. C. Escher Kaleidocycles (with Wallace Walker), Ballantine Books, 1977, Pomegranate Artbooks and TACO, 1987, Taschen 2015
Visions of Symmetry: Notebooks, Periodic Drawings, and Related Work of M. C. Escher (W. H. Freeman, 1990, 1992;
Revised as M. C. Escher: Visions of Symmetry, Harry N. Abrams, 2004)
A Companion to Calculus (with Dennis Ebersole, Alicia Sevilla, and Kay Somers, Brooks/Cole, 1995)
Geometry Turned On!: Dynamic Software in Learning, Teaching, and Research (with James King, Cambridge University Press, 1997)
M.C. Escher's Legacy: A Centennial Celebration (with Michelle Emmer, Springer, 2003)
Schattschneider, Doris (1978), "Tiling the plane with congruent pentagons" (PDF), Mathematics Magazine, 51 (1): 29–44, doi:10.2307/2689644, JSTOR 2689644;
Reprinted with Afterword in The Harmony of the World: 75 Years of Mathematics Magazine, eds. G. Alexanderson and P. Ross, Math. Assoc. of Amer., Washington DC, 2007, pp. 175-190.
Schattschneider, Doris (1978), "The plane symmetry groups: Their recognition and notation", The American Mathematical Monthly, 85 (6): 439–450, doi:10.1080/00029890.1978.11994612, JSTOR 2320063.
Schattschneider, Doris (1981), "In praise of amateurs", in Klarner, David A. (ed.), The Mathematical Gardner, Boston: Prindle, Weber & Schmidt, pp. 140–166;
Reprinted as Mathematical Recreations: A Collection in Honor of Martin Gardner, Dover Publications, New York, 1998.
Schattschneider, Doris (1998), "One Corona is Enough for the Euclidean Plane," coauthor Nikolai Dolbilin. In Quasicrystals and Discrete Geometry (J. Patera, editor). Fields Institute Monographs, Vol. 10, AMS, Providence, RI, 1998, pp. 207–246.
Accompanying web site: Catalog of Isohedral Tilings by Symmetric Polygonal Tiles
Schroeder, Tom (June 11, 1992), "Math Professor's Watchword: Visual", The Morning Call.
Bodegas Güell, in Catalan Celler Güell, is an architectural complex comprising a winery and associated buildings located in Garraf, in the Spanish municipality of Sitges (Barcelona), designed by the Catalan architect Antoni Gaudí.
Gaudí received the commission for this work in 1882 from his patron Eusebi Güell, who had seen Gaudí's work at the Paris Expo in 1878; in this year Gaudí received a number of other commissions including the Palau Güell, the Pavellons Güell in Pedralbes, the Park Güell and the crypt of the Church of Colònia Güell in Santa Coloma de Cervelló. The original commission consisted of the winery and several hunting pavilions, but the latter were never built. The whole complex was located on the La Cuadra estate in Garraf, Sitges and was the property of the Count Güell. The winery buildings were finally built between 1895 and 1897, under the direction of Francesc Berenguer, Gaudí's assistant.
The winery has a triangular frontal profile, with almost vertical roofs, steep sloping stone slabs, finished off with sets of chimneys and two doors that connect it to the old building. There are three floors: the ground floor for parking vehicles, an apartment on the first floor and a domed chapel on the top floor.
Count Güell actually produced wine in the winery, which was served on the ships of the Compañía Transatlántica Española shipping line and was also exported to Cuba. However, production stopped in 1936 due to lack of commercial success.
There is currently a restaurant in the Bodegas Güell.
List of Gaudí buildings
Catalan Modernism
Joan Bassegoda Nonell: Gaudí o espacio, luz y equilibrio, Criterio, Madrid, 2002, ISBN 84-95437-10-4.
gaudiallgaudi.com
Craig Blackman (born 25 March 1951) is a Canadian sprinter. He competed in the men's 4 × 400 metres relay at the 1972 Summer Olympics.
Craig Blackman at World Athletics
Craig Blackman at Olympics.com
Craig Blackman at Team Canada
Craig Blackman at Olympedia
Ricky Bibey (22 September 1981 – 16 July 2022) was an English professional rugby league footballer who played as a prop or second-row. He made his professional debut in 2001 for Wigan Warriors, and went on to play for Leigh Centurions, St Helens, Oldham and Wakefield Trinity Wildcats before being forced to retire in 2012 due to injury. He also represented England A, making three appearances for the team in 2002.
Bibey was born in Leigh, Greater Manchester, England. He played junior rugby league at Leigh East, and in 1999, he was selected in the Young Lions squad that played a Test series against Australia Schoolboys.
Bibey made his professional debut for Wigan Warriors in May 2001 against Wakefield Trinity Wildcats. However, he was then sent off in his second appearance for the club in a 30–31 defeat against Salford City Reds. Following the sacking of Wigan coach Frank Endacott, he struggled to regain his place in the team, and made just four appearances during the 2001 season.
In 2002, Bibey featured more regularly in the first team, playing 26 games for Wigan during the season, including a substitute appearance in the 21–12 win against St Helens in the 2002 Challenge Cup final. Shortly after the cup final, Bibey was involved in a car crash, but was not seriously injured. At the end of the season, he was selected in the England A squad which toured the Southern Hemisphere, and played in matches against Fiji and Tonga.
In July 2003, Bibey joined his hometown club Leigh Centurions on a one-month loan, which was later extended until the end of the season.
Bibey is one of the few players to win a Challenge Cup as both a Wigan Warriors and a St. Helens player as part of Wigan Warriors' 2002 Challenge Cup-winning squad and then in St Helens' 2004 squad. Bibey was also a member of the Leigh Centurions side that won the Northern Rail Cup in 2006 but was injured when the Leigh Centurions won the same competition again in 2011.
He was forced to retire in May 2012 as a result of an achilles tendon injury.
After hanging up his boots, Bibey coached junior sides at Oldham St Anne's ARLFC.
On the morning of 16 July 2022, Bibey was found dead in a hotel room in Florence. He was aged 40. A seriously injured 43-year-old woman, thought to be his partner, was also found at the scene. The cause of death is attributable to the intake of cocaine which would have caused a heart attack. Bibey reportedly suffered the heart attack while beating his partner.
Profile at leighcenturions.com
Statistics at wigan.rlfans.com Archived 11 January 2020 at the Wayback Machine
Profile at saints.org.uk
Pollo (sometimes stylized as POLLO) is a rap group formed in 2010 in São Paulo, Brazil by the MCs Luiz Tomim (also known as “Tomim”), Adriel de Menezes (also known as "AdR"), and DJ Kalfani. The band found fame with its hit “Vagalumes”, which has had over 30 million views on YouTube. In September 2013, after the disappearance of Adriel Luis Tomim, DJ Kalfani and Luiz Tomim announced they were fulfilling the touring schedule and commitments until 31 December 2013, when they would disband and stop performing. Three days later, after a decision by the remaining band members, Adriel stated that the band would not discontinue.
The group was originally formed in 2010, recording and writing entirely in a home production environment, and distributing their music via the Internet. The first song which was professionally studio recorded was "Trama", in 2010. Pollo became known on the Internet for the song "Zica do Bagui", from collaborator Bonde da Stronda. In 2012, they announced a new member, DJ Kalfani, son of KL Jay from Racionais MC’s.
In 2012, the group released the clips "Trama", "Pirituba City", "As Quatro", "Buxixos & Simpatias", and "Vagalumes".
According to Brasil Hot Airplay, the song "Vagalumes" was one of the most requested songs on radio. It was also included in the soundtrack of Rede Globo's telenovela Sangue Bom. With the participation of singer Ivo Mozart, the song was nominated in, and won, the categories of best song and music video of the year. The song currently has over 30 million views on YouTube. In the same year, the band released their first album titled "Vim Para Dominar o Mundo" which could be downloaded for free on iTunes.
In 2014, the band released a new album, under the label Som Livre, called "777".
Vim Pra Dominar o Mundo (2012)
"Vagalumes" (featuring Ivo Mozart)
"Zika do Bagui" (with Bonde da Stronda)
"Buxixo & Simpatia"
"Exceção da Regra"
"Fiesta Muy Loka"
"Vim Pra Dominar O Mundo"(feat Terra Preta)
Official website
The Cleveland Police and Crime Commissioner is the police and crime commissioner (PCC), an elected official tasked with setting out the way crime is tackled by Cleveland Police in the area of the former county of Cleveland in England. The post was created in November 2012, following an election held on 15 November 2012, and replaced the Cleveland Police Authority. The incumbent PCC is Matt Storey, who was elected in May 2024. The Office of the Cleveland Police and Crime Commissioner currently employs 35 staff.
Official website
A lacustrine plain or lake plain is a plain formed due to the past existence of a lake and its accompanying sediment accumulation. Lacustrine plains can be formed through one of three major mechanisms: glacial drainage, differential uplift, and inland lake creation and drainage. Lake plains can have various uses depending on where and how they form.
Over time, in regions where a lake once existed, as water drains or evaporates from the lake, the deposited sediments are left behind, resulting in a level plain of land where the lake once existed. The soil of the plain may constitute fertile and productive farmland due to the previous accumulation of lacustrine sediments; in other cases, it may become a wetland or a desert.
Lacustrine plains are plains formed when lakes filled with sediments are drained. There are several reasons why drainage might occur, but in all cases the water in the lake is lost, leaving behind a level land of sediments. The resulting plain is an area of flat land which is often rich in fine-grained sediments. Depending on geologic and climatic factors, the once-lake region may turn into a desert or wetland. In other cases, lacustrine plains may have agricultural value.
The origins of lacustrine plains are lakes formed under different circumstances. Lake plains resulting from the drainage of glacial lakes are called glaciolacustrine plains, which differ from those resulting from differential uplifts and those from the creation of inland lakes.
Glaciolacustrine plains form when the lakes in the continental ice sheets drain and leave the rocky debris within behind. The most recent ice age, the Wisconsin, was a drive for glacial lake formation and the glaciolacustrine plain formation that followed. Glacial lakes are grouped into categories which represent the conditions in which they form. Lake formations depending on the existence of active glaciers are different from those depending on the proximity of the lake to glaciers and those depending on glacier retreats. Regardless of the difference in those glacial lakes' formation conditions, lakes that are trapped inside ice walls drain after the ice walls melt, and the sediments in the lakes form glaciolacustrine plains.
Glaciolacustrine plain formations can be found in a variety of places. For instance, Lake Agassiz-Ojibway Basin in northwestern Quebec is a good example of lacustrine plain formation caused by the ice readvance and drainage of Lake Ojibway. By analyzing the varve sequences and dividing them into the Matagami section and La Reine section, researchers were able to determine the time of occurrence for a major ice readvance event in the area and two drainage events in the lake. It was concluded that two drainage events separated by approximately 65 years led to the final drainage of the lake and the formation of the glaciolacustrine Agassiz-Ojibway Basin.
Other locations of glaciolacustrine plains include Lake Erie, Saginaw Bay in Lake Huron, and the Lake Superior lake plain.
Lake plains caused by tectonic movements, or epeirogeny, constitute another type of lacustrine plain. Due to tectonic events, the uplift of crusts may occasionally lead to the formation of basins. Later, as water fill the region, a lake is formed. Various factors may contribute to the drainage of the lakes formed in such fashion, and the sediments form a large, flat plain where the lakes once existed.
Lacustrine plains formed by differential uplift can be found in multiple locations, and they are most commonly seen in Africa. The Nile drainage system, for example, is a drainage system formed by mantle plumes activity induced tectonic uplift, forming the Rwenzori and Virunga Mountains. This uplift led to a segmentation of the west East African Rift System and led to the difference in flowing directions of the rivers in the northwestern Main Ethiopian Rift and the eastern and western East African Rift System. The regional tectonics therefore contributed to a redirection of the rivers, causing the Paleo-lake Obweruka to break into smaller regional lakes and the drainage system to change.
Tectonics-induced lacustrine plain formation can also be found at the Congo Lake Plain and the Lake Plain of South Sudan.
While differential uplift can certainly create inland basins and lakes, many inland lakes are created due to a period of heavy and consistent rainfall that the region experiences. Like any other lake, lakes formed in inland basins are bound to face obliteration. As sediments deposit and accumulate at the bottom of the lake and as water drains due to environmental forces and geologic events, the lake gradually approaches its full state. A lacustrine plain is then formed when drainage reaches completion, and the lake becomes a plain of sediments.
One example of inland lake creation in once arid land is Lake Eyre in South Australia. The Lake Eyre North basin formed due to tectonic subsidence, and repeating glacial cycles and climatic cycles led to wet and dry cycles in the lake where the state of the lake changed drastically. Lake Eyre is currently a playa, indicating that it is in a relatively arid episode. However, it was much wetter when it was in flood-dominated episodes, and it held more water than its current ephemeral state.
The Chad Basin Plain is also a good example of inland lacustrine plain formation. By conducting facies analysis, researchers are able to determine four lithofacies associations for the Chad Basin, and thus the sequences of the Chad Basin's formation. Those lithofacies with little plant debris indicate a period of aridity and represent the last sequence of Chad formation where a lacustrine plain existed.
Other examples of inland lake creation, drainage, and lake plain formation can be found at plains near the Caspian Sea and the Lake Bonneville Plain.
The Great Plains in North America are examples of the agricultural values of lacustrine plains. The flat lake plain where Lake Agassiz once existed now serves as a cropland for sugar beets and potatoes. Beneficial to the growth of the crops, the soils of the lacustrine plains in the Great Lakes region are fertile due to prior sedimentation, and the land is so flat that crops can thrive. The remaining glacial materials also provide essential nutrients for crop growth and thus boost farm productivity.
Lacustrine plains are also valuable in paleoenvironment and paleoclimate studies. By surveying the western lake plain of Llancanelo Lake in Argentina, researchers were able to gather geomorphological data and sedimentary evidence to reconstruct the extension of the lake in the past. It was concluded that the lake extended a larger territory in the past. In the case of Llancanelo Lake, the western lacustrine plain was a crucial factor in determining the evolution of the lake. A similar use of drainage areas and lacustrine plain can be found in a research done on the Congo. Sedimentation and drainage data collected through monitoring the Congo's drainage system provide valuable insight into the glacial stages and climate periods the region has gone through.
Glaciolacustrine deposits
Rao Muhammad Ajmal Khan (Urdu: راو محمد اجمل خان; born 20 August 1954) is a Pakistani politician who had been a member of the National Assembly of Pakistan from August 2018 till August 2023. Previously he was a member of the National Assembly from 2002 to 2007 and again from June 2013 to May 2018.
He currently serves as Special Assistant to the Prime Minister, with the status of Minister of State
He was born on 20 August 1954. he is son of Rao Afzal, Who was MNA in 1977 & 88.
He was elected to the National Assembly of Pakistan as an independent candidate from Constituency NA-146 (Okara-IV) in the 2002 Pakistani general election. He received 62,711 votes and defeated Rao Muhammad Safdar Khan, a candidate of Pakistan Muslim League (Q) (PML-Q). In August 2003, he was appointed as Federal Parliamentary Secretary for petroleum and natural resources. in Jamali Government.
He ran for the seat of the National Assembly as a candidate of PML-Q from Constituency NA-146 (Okara-IV) in the 2008 Pakistani general election but was unsuccessful. He received 46,006 votes and lost the seat to Manzoor Wattoo. In the same election, he ran for the seat of the Provincial Assembly of the Punjab as an independent candidate from Constituency PP-192 (Okara-VIII) but was unsuccessful. He received 65 votes and lost the seat to Malik Ali Abbas Khokhar.
He was re-elected to the National Assembly as a candidate of Pakistan Muslim League (N) (PML-N) from Constituency NA-146 (Okara-IV) in the 2013 Pakistani general election. He received 109,998 votes and defeated Manzoor Wattoo. During his tenure as Member of the National Assembly, he served as Federal Parliamentary Secretary for Industries and Production.
He was re-elected to the National Assembly as a candidate of PML-N from Constituency NA-143 (Okara-III) in the 2018 Pakistani general election.
He ran for the seat of the National Assembly as a candidate of PML-N from Constituency NA-137 (Okara-III) in the 2024 Pakistani general election but was unsuccessful. He lost the seat to Syed Raza Ali Gillani a PTI supported independent candidate.
Burscott is a hamlet in Devon, England.
Media related to Burscott at Wikimedia Commons
Proline aminopeptidase may refer to:
Prolyl aminopeptidase, an enzyme
Xaa-Pro aminopeptidase, an enzyme
Ashley Fisher and Stephen Huss were the defending champions but decided not to participate.
Johan Brunström and Izak van der Merwe won the title, defeating Martin Emmrich and Andreas Siljeström 6–4, 6–1 in the final.
Affinisine is a monoterpenoid indole alkaloid which can be isolated from plants of the genus Tabernaemontana. Structurally, it can be considered a member of the sarpagine alkaloid family and may be synthesized from tryptophan via a Pictet-Spengler reaction.
Limited pharmacological testing has indicated that affinisine may effectively inhibit acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase.
19-Epivoacristine
Mouřínov is a municipality and village in Vyškov District in the South Moravian Region of the Czech Republic. It has about 500 inhabitants.
Mouřínov lies approximately 18 kilometres (11 mi) south of Vyškov, 29 km (18 mi) east of Brno, and 215 km (134 mi) south-east of Prague.
Antonín Pospíšil (1903–1973), politician
Official website
Athrips irritans is a moth of the family Gelechiidae. It is found in Saudi Arabia.
Cursed Films is an American television documentary produced by Shudder, a streaming service owned by AMC Networks. Written, edited and directed by Jay Cheel, the series covers alleged instances of curses surrounding films. It premiered April 2, 2020 on Shudder with mixed to positive reviews.
In August 2020, Shudder renewed the series for a second season, which premiered on April 7, 2022.
The documentary series focuses on alleged curses that afflicted the production of notable horror/non-horror films. Each episode focuses on a single film and includes interviews with individuals who worked on said films. The series also includes interviews with journalists and film critics who comment on the alleged curses.
Twilight Zone accident
Classical Hollywood cinema
Vulgar auteurism
Cursed Films at IMDb
Official website
Official trailer
Hedera rhombea, the Japanese ivy or songak, is a species of ivy in the Araliaceae family native to East Asia. It is native to Japan, the Korean Peninsula, the Ryukyu Islands, and Taiwan, where it is common on rocky slopes and growing up the trunks of trees, especially in laurel forest, a type of cloud forest.
It is an evergreen climbing plant, growing to 10 m high where suitable surfaces (trees, cliffs, walls) are available, and also growing as ground cover where there are no vertical surfaces. It climbs by means of aerial rootlets which cling to the substrate. Stems are green, poisonous if eaten and have an irritating sap. It is cultivated in gardens and used in floral arrangements.
The leaves are medium green and have a rhombic diamond shape that give it its species name, rhombea. Leaves have a glossy, dark green petiole. The bisexual flowers are 4–5 mm in diameter and yellow-green, in erect umbels. The round fruits are black when ripe.
Two subspecies are accepted.
Hedera rhombea var. formosana (Nakai) H.L.Li (synonym Hedera formosana Nakai) – Taiwan
Hedera rhombea var. rhombea (synonyms Hedera japonica Tobler, H. japonica Paul, H. pedunculata Nakai, H. rhomboidea G.W.Johnson, H. submarginata (Hibberd) Carrière, and H. tobleri Nakai) – Japan, Korea, and the Ryukyu Islands
Dilson Scher Neto (born 26 June 1992), best known as Dilsinho, is a Brazilian singer-songwriter.
Born in Rio de Janeiro, Dilsinho started his professional career in 2009, as a member of the band Para de Kaô. In 2013, following the disbandment of the group, he started his solo career, and in 2014 he released his debut album, the eponymous Dilsinho.
In 2019, Dilsinho's song "Péssimo Negócio" was the most played song on Brazilian radio stations and it was certified triple diamond, while his live album Terra do Nunca also received a diamond certification. The same year, he was awarded best singer at the Multishow Brazilian Music Awards.
O Cara Certo (2016)
Quarto e Sala (2019)
Garrafas e Bocas (2021)
Juntos (with Sorriso Maroto) (2022)
#SML Fora da Curva (2017)
Terra do Nunca (2019)
Open House (2020)
Juntos - Ao Vivo no Rio de Janeiro (with Sorriso Maroto) (2022)
Diferentão (2023)
Official website
Dilsinho discography at Discogs
Una prostituta al servizio del pubblico e in regola con le leggi dello stato (literally "A prostitute serving the public and complying with the laws of the state", also known as Prostitution Italian Style) is a 1970 Italian drama film written and directed by Italo Zingarelli.
For her performance Giovanna Ralli won the Grolla d'oro for best actress.
Giovanna Ralli: Oslavia
Giancarlo Giannini: Walter
Jean-Marc Bory: François Coly
Roberto Chevalier
Una prostituta al servizio del pubblico e in regola con le leggi dello stato at IMDb
Eucamptognathus jeanneli is a species of ground beetle in the subfamily Pterostichinae. It was described by Basilewsky in 1946.
The Onomichi Expressway (尾道自動車道, Onomichi Jidōsha-dō) is a national expressway in the Chūgoku region of Japan. It is owned and operated by West Nippon Expressway Company.
The expressway is officially referred to as the Chūgoku-Ōdan Expressway Onomichi Matsue Route. The Chūgoku-Ōdan Expressway Onomichi Matsue Route is the official designation for the Sanyō Expressway between Onomichi Interchange and Hiroshima Junction, the Onomichi Expressway between Onomichi Junction and Miyoshi-Higashi Junction, and the Matsue Expressway between Miyoshi-Higashi Junction and Matsue Interchange (concurrent with the Chūgoku-Ōdan Expressway Onomichi Matsue Route).
The first section of the expressway was opened in 2010. The final section of the expressway (18.4 km between Kisa Interchange and Sera Interchange) was opened on March 22, 2015. The route originates from its junction with the Sanyō Expressway and extends northward. At its northern terminus it connects to the Chūgoku Expressway. The entire route is toll-free with the exception of the short (0.9 km) section between Onomichi Junction and Onomichi Toll Gate.
The route is 2 lanes for its entire length, with some overtaking areas. The speed limit is 70 km/h.
IC - interchange, SIC - smart interchange, JCT - junction, SA - service area, PA - parking area, BS - bus stop, TN - tunnel, BR - bridge
(in Japanese) West Nippon Expressway Company
The Midsummer Stakes was a Listed flat horse race in Great Britain open to horses aged three years or older.
It was run at Windsor over a distance of 1 mile and 31 yards (1,638 metres), and took place each year in June.
The race was first run in 2004. It was removed from the Pattern and Listed race programme in 2023.
Horse racing in Great Britain
List of British flat horse races
2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013
2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022
Jacinto is a masculine given name. It may also refer to:
Jacinto (surname)
Jacinto, Minas Gerais, Brazil, a municipality
Jacinto, California, United States, an unincorporated community
Jacinto, Mississippi, United States, a census-designated place
Jacinto, Nebraska, United States, an unincorporated community
Jacinto-class patrol vessel, a Philippine Navy ship class
Tropical Storm Nongfa (2025), known in the Philippines as Jacinto
An Independence Day is an annual event commemorating the anniversary of a nation's independence or statehood, usually after ceasing to be a group or part of another nation or state, or after the end of a military occupation, or after a major change in government. Many countries commemorate their independence from a colonial empire.
Not all countries mark independence as a national holiday. Many, such as Australia, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Japan, New Zealand, Ireland, Luxembourg, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Taiwan, and Turkey mark other dates of significance.
Political history of the world
Timeline of national independence
List of countries that gained independence from Spain
Media related to Independence Days at Wikimedia Commons
Mara Aranda (born 6 December 1968) is a Spanish singer. She is known for rediscovering and reviving the musical heritage of Sephardic Jews.
She was born and raised in Valencia. Motivated by her desire to study and research traditional music, she traveled and lived in Crete during 2003 and 2004. In 2005, she moved to Thessaloniki, Greece, where she studied folklore,
moved traditional vocals and music in depth. She got to grips with religious Byzantine chant with Drossos Kutsokostas.
It was also in Thessaloniki, - the Jerusalem of the Balkans for the Sephardim -, where she began to complete her repertoire by exploring more the Western perspective due to her proximity to mainland Spain.
Mara Aranda's research and compilation is reflected in the album titled "Musiques i Cants Sefardis d’Orient i Occident" (Sephardic music and song from East and West) with Aman Aman and published by Galileo-mc.
The fact that she moved away from her own roots in a geographical sense made her look back at them with a renewed interest. She started to get to grips with traditional song from Valencia "Cant d’estil" through singer-songwriter Josep Aparicio ‘Apa’ and went on to perform different television series' soundtracks too.
In 1998 she put together the group L’Ham de Foc along with Éfren López; a project with Greek, Turkish, Balkan, Arab, Iranian, and Afghan influence, but with a strong Valencian identity. L’Ham de Foc went on to become one of the most internationally acclaimed Spanish groups at the time, bringing together a broad fan base from across the musical spectrum. They managed to reach a diverse audience; enthusiastic and loyal to a musical and artistic style that was different, authentic, adventurous, open and far removed from the conventions of folk, rock and pop. It developed into a unique timeless musical concept without trying to follow other trends. Their compositions grabbed the attention of art professionals and the public alike. Three albums were recorded between 1999 and 2006, all critically acclaimed: U, Cançó de Dona i Home, and Cor de Porc.
For two years on Channel 9 Radio-Si Radio in Valencia, she produced, directed and presented the programme Microkosmos dedicated to early and traditional music.
She played the lead in prestigious producer Pyrene's documentary programme Vinoleum dedicated to Caroig Massif, with photography and texts by Manuel Asensi and music by Joan Manuel Serrat and L’Ham de Foc.
In 2007 she embarked on a fascinating journey with Al Andaluz Project and brought together the strength of its three female vocalists: Sigrid Hausen, Iman Kandousi and Mara Aranda. They each represented three different musical heritages of the three cultures in Spain. The fruits of their efforts can be seen in Deus et Diabolus, Al Maraya and Abuab Al-andaluz, and includes a repertoire inspired by Central European, Sephardic and Andalusian cultures.
Mara has worked tirelessly and meticulously with such early music groups as Speculum Ensemble directed by Ernesto Schmied; Ensemble Oni Wytars directed by Michael Posch; and Ensemble Unicorn directed by Marco Ambrosini. Her work with Capella de Ministrers deserves special mention, putting together such works as Els Viatges de Tirant lo Blanch, The Circle of Life and Locked Music: Sefarad: compositio
ns transmitted by oral tradition through the centuries in Turkey, Bulgaria, Morocco and Greece.
In February 2013 the much anticipated album "Sephardic Legacy" sees the light of day, a celebration of the music and song of the Sephardic Jews in the Eastern and Western Mediterranean.
Working with the group Solatge on a repertoire of traditional music from the historic territories of Aragon, the album Deria has won several awards: Best Folk Album 2009 COM "F"; Best Folk Album Catalunya Radio programme, Hydrogen; and several weeks in the WCME's prestigious ranking of Best Folk Music Groups in the World. Their second album Lo testament was released in October 2013 winning the award Best Folk Album 2013, again from COM.
Since January 2020 she serves as director of the International Centre of Medieval Music in Valencia.
Cendraires - "Cendraires" (Sonifolk, 1998)
L'Ham de Foc - "U" (Sonifolk, 1999)
L'Ham de Foc - "Cançó de Dona i Home" (Sonifolk, 2002)
L'Ham de Foc - "Cor de Porc" (Galileo, 2005)
Aman Aman - "Música i Cants Sefardís d´Orient i Occident"(Galileo, 2006)
Al Andaluz project - "Deus et Diabolus" (Galileo, 2007)
Mara Aranda & Solatge - "Dèria" (Galileo, 2009)
Al-Andaluz Project - "Al Maraya" (Galileo, 2010)
Artaica - "Nits cosies" (Temps Record, 2010)
Abuab-Al Andaluz/Live in Munich (Galileo, 2011)
Al Andaluz project - "Salam" (Galileo, 2013)
Sephardic Legacy (Bureo músiques, 2013)
Mara Aranda & Solatge - "Lo Testament" (Bureo músiques, 2013)
"Mare Vostrum" (Picap, 2015)
Sefarad en el Corazón de Marruecos (2016)
Sefarad en el corazõn de Turquīa (2019)
Sefarad en el corazõn de Grecia (2023)
David Cervera on his album Talaud (EMI-UPC, 2000). Tracks: Voramar and Nunat.
Miquel Gil on his album Orgànic (Sonifolk, 2001). Tracks: Cançó dels traginers.
Med'set Orkestra on their album Homónimo (2007). Tracks: La tarara y La puerta.
Aljub+Krama on their album Afluències (Picap, 2009). Tracks: Mar de verí, L'olivera, Asteri and Taksidi.
Luigi Cinque Project on their album Alentejo Story Concert (2009). Tracks: Yo me levantaría and El pandero.
Aljub on their album Portes (Picap, 2010). Tracks: T'adormires a la meua ombra.
Taray on their album Folkresort (Tres fronteras, 2010). Tracks: La candela.
Capella de Ministrers on their album Els viatges de Tirant lo Blanch (2010). Tracks: Magnificat/Megalini.
Obrint Pas on their album Coratge (2011). Tracks: Jota Valenciana and Al país de l'olivera.
Capella de Ministrers on their album El Circle de la Vida (2012). Tracks: Epitafi de Sikilos.
Capella de Ministrers on their album La cité des dames (2013). Tracks: 'Mareta'.
Capella de Ministrers on their album La música encerrada (2014).
Official website
Entrevista en Discópolis, con José Miguel López, Radio 3, RNE
Video reportage 'la cantant de les tres cultures' (en valenciano)
Mara Aranda a su paso por 'Entrelares' dirigido por Sonia Frías
La tradición Mediterránea de Mara Aranda, en el programa de TV3 'La Sonora', 2013
Reconstruint el llegat, artículo para Els Quaderns del País, 2013 (en valenciano)
Una trovadora en el siglo XXI, artículo para Babelia - País, 2013
Video presentación 'Música encerrada', junto a Capella de Ministrers - 2014
This is a list of cases reported in volume 221 of United States Reports, decided by the Supreme Court of the United States in 1911.
The Supreme Court is established by Article III, Section 1 of the Constitution of the United States, which says: "The judicial Power of the United States, shall be vested in one supreme Court . . .". The size of the Court is not specified; the Constitution leaves it to Congress to set the number of justices. Under the Judiciary Act of 1789 Congress originally fixed the number of justices at six (one chief justice and five associate justices). Since 1789 Congress has varied the size of the Court from six to seven, nine, ten, and back to nine justices (always including one chief justice).
When the cases in volume 221 were decided the Court comprised the following nine members:
Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U.S. 1 (1911), and United States v. American Tobacco Co.,
221 U.S. 106 (1911), are a pair of major antitrust decisions by the Supreme Court. In Standard Oil the Court found the company guilty of monopolizing the petroleum industry through a series of abusive and anticompetitive actions. The decision resulted in the breakup of Standard Oil into 34 separate companies. (Many of these have since recombined, particularly into ExxonMobil.) The Court in American Tobacco held the combination in that case was in restraint of trade and an attempt to monopolize the business of tobacco in interstate commerce within the prohibitions of the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890. As a result, the American Tobacco Company was split into four competitors.
Under the Judiciary Act of 1789 the federal court structure at the time comprised District Courts, which had general trial jurisdiction; Circuit Courts, which had mixed trial and appellate (from the US District Courts) jurisdiction; and the United States Supreme Court, which had appellate jurisdiction over the federal District and Circuit courts—and for certain issues over state courts. The Supreme Court also had limited original jurisdiction (i.e., in which cases could be filed directly with the Supreme Court without first having been heard by a lower federal or state court). There were one or more federal District Courts and/or Circuit Courts in each state, territory, or other geographical region.
The Judiciary Act of 1891 created the United States Courts of Appeals and reassigned the jurisdiction of most routine appeals from the district and circuit courts to these appellate courts. The Act created nine new courts that were originally known as the "United States Circuit Courts of Appeals." The new courts had jurisdiction over most appeals of lower court decisions. The Supreme Court could review either legal issues that a court of appeals certified or decisions of court of appeals by writ of certiorari.
Bluebook citation style is used for case names, citations, and jurisdictions.
"# Cir." = United States Court of Appeals
e.g., "3d Cir." = United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
"C.C.D." = United States Circuit Court for the District of . . .
e.g.,"C.C.D.N.J." = United States Circuit Court for the District of New Jersey
"D." = United States District Court for the District of . . .
e.g.,"D. Mass." = United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts
"E." = Eastern; "M." = Middle; "N." = Northern; "S." = Southern; "W." = Western
e.g.,"C.C.S.D.N.Y." = United States Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York
e.g.,"M.D. Ala." = United States District Court for the Middle District of Alabama
"Ct. Cl." = United States Court of Claims
The abbreviation of a state's name alone indicates the highest appellate court in that state's judiciary at the time.
e.g.,"Pa." = Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
e.g.,"Me." = Supreme Judicial Court of Maine
Certificate of division
[1] Case reports in volume 221 from Library of Congress
[2] Case reports in volume 221 from Court Listener
[3] Case reports in volume 221 from the Caselaw Access Project of Harvard Law School
[4] Case reports in volume 221 from Google Scholar
[5] Case reports in volume 221 from Justia
[6] Case reports in volume 221 from Open Jurist
Website of the United States Supreme Court
United States Courts website about the Supreme Court
National Archives, Records of the Supreme Court of the United States
American Bar Association, How Does the Supreme Court Work?
The Supreme Court Historical Society
The Calgary Roughnecks are a lacrosse team based in Calgary playing in the National Lacrosse League (NLL). The 2013 season was the 12th in franchise history.
For the third straight season, the Roughnecks finished the season first in the west, but ran into trouble in the playoffs. Calgary defeated the Colorado Mammoth 15-10 in the division semi-finals but in a thrilling division final game, the Washington Stealth held on to win 14-13 and end the Roughnecks season.
x: Clinched playoff berth; c: Clinched playoff berth by crossing over to another division; y: Clinched division; z: Clinched best regular season record; GP: Games PlayedW: Wins; L: Losses; GB: Games back; PCT: Win percentage; Home: Record at Home; Road: Record on the Road; GF: Goals scored; GA: Goals allowedDifferential: Difference between goals scored and allowed; GF/GP: Average number of goals scored per game; GA/GP: Average number of goals allowed per game
The 2012 NLL Entry Draft took place on October 1, 2012. The Roughnecks made the following selections:
Dino Mikanović (born 7 May 1994) is a Croatian professional footballer who plays as a right-back for Liga I club Universitatea Cluj.
Born in Nova Gradiška but hailing from the village of Podvrško, Mikanović started his youth career at the nearby Mladost Cernik. He joined the U17 team of NK Osijek in 2009, spending the next three seasons there before moving to Hajduk Split on a free transfer, as he was not offered a contract after he turned 18. For this club has debuted against Slaven Belupo on 10 April 2013.
He made his debut for Hajduk in his one and only appearance in the 2012–13 season, coming on in the 85th minute against Slaven Belupo. The next season Dino was more prominent in the first team at Hajduk, making 16 appearances in all competitions, scoring his first goal in a 1–1 draw against NK Zadar and assisting a further three goals.
On 15 July 2015, he signed on a four-year contract with AGF Aarhus of the Danish Superliga.
On 19 February 2019, Mikanović signed a two-year contract with FC Kairat.
On 28 January 2022, Hajduk Split announced the return of Mikanović, on a contract until the summer of 2024. His contract ended in June 2024 with Hajduk Split and Mikanović not coming to terms about the renewal. During his time with the club, Mikanović won three domestic cups and made 101 appearances in all competitions, scoring three goals and assisting eight.
On 27 July 2024, HNK Gorica announced the free transfer of Mikanović. He signed a two-year contract following his departure from Hajduk Split. He made his league debut on 3 August 2024 in a home game against Varaždin, but was substituted in the 22nd minute following an injury. The game ended as a goalless draw. Mikanović scored his first goal for the club on 30 August 2024 in the 76 minute in a 2–1 league win on home turf against the newly promoted Šibenik side.
As of 3 August 2026
Croatian Cup: 2012–13, 2021–22, 2022–23
Danish Cup runner-up: 2015–16
Kazakhstan Premier League: 2020
Kazakhstan Cup: 2021
Universitatea Cluj
Cupa României runner-up: 2025–26
Supercupa României runner-up: 2026
Dino Mikanović at the Croatian Football Federation
Dino Mikanović at Soccerway
Fiorenza Donato is an Italian theoretical astroparticle physicist whose research involves the study of cosmic rays and their use in understanding the nature of dark matter, the possible products of particle collisions involving dark matter, the creation and behavior of antimatter among high-energy cosmic particles, and gamma-ray astronomy. She is a full professor of theoretical physics at the University of Turin.
Donato graduated magna cum laude from the University of Turin in 1995, and continued at the university for a Ph.D. in physics, completed in 1998. She earned a French habilitation in 2002, and an Italian professorial habilitation in 2013.
She was a postdoctoral researcher at the Laboratoire d'Annecy-le-Vieux de physique des particules from 1998 to 2001, at the University of Turin from 2002 to 2004, and as an Alexander von Humboldt Fellow at the Max Planck Institute for Physics from 2004 to 2005.
She continued as a researcher at the University of Turin, becoming an associate professor there in 2015 and full professor in 2021.
Donato was elected as a Fellow of the American Physical Society (APS) in 2015, after a nomination from the APS Division of Astrophysics, "for extensive ground breaking contributions in astro particle physics and indirect dark matter searches". She became a corresponding member of the Accademia delle Scienze di Torino in 2021.
Fiorenza Donato publications indexed by Google Scholar
Love Thy Neighbor is a Canadian made-for-TV thriller movie directed by Paul Schneider, originally released for the United States in 2006.
The main protagonist, Laura Benson (Alexandra Paul) and her family (Gary Hudson and Ksenia Solo), move to a new gated community after a violent break and enter. After a series of unfortunate and suspicions events, Laura starts to suspect her over-friendly neighbor is to blame.
Alexandra Paul – Laura Benson
Shannon Lawson – Janis Rivers
Gary Hudson – Jim Benson
Ksenia Solo – Erin Benson
Rod Crowley – Crowley
John Bourgeois – Detective Zeller
Michelle Killoran – Jenny Rivers
John Jarvis – Alan Rivers
Scott Wickware – Coach Brand
James Binkley – Shooter
Sean Baek – Accomplice / Jack Kim
Ricardo Betancourt – Assistant
Barbara Gordon – Micky Gallaghan
Tomoko Siu – Streetgirl
Justine Campbell – Waitress
Paul Stephen – Principal Bennet
Diego Fuentes – ACS Officer
Nicole Mauffrey – Receptionist (uncredited)
Julian Grant – producer
Michael Jacobs – executive producer
Fernando Szew – executive producer
Norman Orenstein – music
J.P. Locherer (Joseph Locherer) – cinematographer
Ben Wilkinson – film editor
Lindsay Chag – casting
Brian Levy – casting
Filming location – Guelph, Ontario, Canada
Production Company – LTN Productions INC.
Runtime – 89 minutes
The 2020 Nebraska Republican presidential primary took place on May 13, 2020 in the Republican Party primaries for the 2020 presidential election. The primary was a closed primary (only open to party members) although unenrolled voters were permitted to enroll in a party at the polls with same day registration.
2020 Nebraska Democratic presidential primary
Nebraska Republican presidential primary results
Violence Dimension is the sixth studio album by British doom metal band Conan. It was released on 25 April 2025 via Heavy Psych Sounds.
The album, produced by Chris Fielding, was the first release by the band through Heavy Psych Sounds. It was preceded by the band's 2022 Napalm Records release, Evidence of Immortality. Jon Davis of the band stated, "This release explores the hinterland between being scared to live and being scared to die, and punches holes in the idea that we must live our life by one set of rules."
"Frozen Edges of the Wound" was released as a single from the album on 22 January 2025.
In a five-star rating for New Noise, Ray Romanski stated that the album "brings the Neanderthal heaviness they're known for to new lows—low tuning, low frequency, subterranean levels of muck." Sputnikmusic reviewer Raul Stanciu assigned it a rating of 3.8 out of five and commented about the production that it "fits like a glove with its dense sound" and the album that it switches "between bulldozing riffage and muddy grooves."
The album received a rating of eight from Distorted Sound reviewer Adam Robertshaw, who remarked, "The guitars and bass are both saturated with so much low end and fuzz, each strike or a chord sounds like a volcanic eruption, and the drums are punchier than on any other Conan record." Metal Hammer's Perran Helyes gave it a rating of eight, noting "Frontman Jon Davis still cries out every word like he's scaling a castle wall with burning pitch speckling his skin, and Johnny King remains one of metal's most underrated sticks men for uniquely obnoxious yet unconventional rhythms, like the unpredictable tempo spikes that end Desolation Hexx."
Sakane Station (坂根駅, Sakane-eki) is a passenger railway station located in the city of Niimi, Okayama Prefecture, Japan. It is operated by the West Japan Railway Company (JR West).
Sakane Station is served by the Geibi Line, and is located 3.9 kilometers from the terminus of the line at Bitchū-Kōjiro and 10.3 kilometers from Niimi.
The station consists of one ground-level side platform serving a single bi-directional track. There is no station building, but only a waiting room and the station is unattended.
Sakane Station was opened on February 10, 1930, with the creation of the Sanshin Line between Yagami Station and Bitchū Kōjiro Station. It became part of JR West in 1987 when Japan National Railways was privatized. An enclosed waiting room was constructed in 2004 for the convenience of passengers.
In fiscal 2019, the station was used by an average of 2 passengers daily.
Japan National Route 182
List of railway stations in Japan
Media related to Sakane Station at Wikimedia Commons
Sakane Station from JR-Odekake.net (in Japanese)
Ahmed Tabanja Ahmed Abdelmunem Yousef (Arabic: أحمد طبنجة; born 2 September 2000) is a Sudanese professional footballer who plays as a left-back for Sudan Premier League club Al Merrikh and the Sudan national team.
Tabanja began his senior career with Sudan Premier League club Khartoum in 2017. On 2 January 2020, he transferred to Al Merrikh on a 4-year contract. He was named Player of the Tournament for the 2024–25 Sudan Premier League season.
Tabanja was called up to the Sudan national team for the 2025 FIFA Arab Cup. The following month, he was called up to the 2025 Africa Cup of Nations.
Sudan Premier League: 2019–20
Ahmed Tabanja at Soccerway
Ahmed Tabanja at National-Football-Teams.com
Haplogroup BT M91, also known as Haplogroup A1b2 (and formerly as A4, BR and BCDEF), is a Y-chromosome haplogroup. BT is a subclade of haplogroup A1b (P108) and a sibling of the haplogroup A1b1 (L419/PF712).
Later Stone Age individuals excavated at Fingira Rock, Malawi, dated to around 6100 years ago (2/2 males), and at Mount Hora, Malawi, dated to around 8000 years ago (1/1 males), all belonged to Y haplogroup BT(xCT).
Basal BT* has not been documented in any living individuals or ancient remains. No definite examples of BT(xCF,DE) – i.e. members of BT outside the only two known branches of CT, namely haplogroups CF and DE – have been identified. In some cases, because testing is undertaken only for geographically and historically likely haplogroups, the data required to identify a precise subclade has not been collected and/or recorded. For instance, research published in 2013, regarding a sample of more than 2,000 men from different parts of Africa, included 7.5% belonging to haplogroup BT(xDE,K). These approximately 150 individuals may have included, for example: B*, unknown primary branches of haplogroups B, BT, CT or CF; haplogroup C, and/or; F(xK) (i.e. haplogroup F* plus its subclades G, H and IJ, but specifically excluding the broader haplogroup K and its subclades, such as haplogroups K*, LT, K2b*, MS, NO, P, Q and R).
The ISOGG tree since 2014 has treated M91 as the defining mutation of BT.
B M60, M181, P85, P90
CT P9.1, M168, M294
Prior to 2002, there were in academic literature at least seven naming systems for the Y-Chromosome Phylogenetic tree. This led to considerable confusion. In 2002, the major research groups came together and formed the Y-Chromosome Consortium (YCC). They published a joint paper that created a single new tree that all agreed to use.
Virginia Alice Stroud (March 13, 1951 – November 8, 2024) was a Native American painter from Oklahoma. She was an enrolled citizen of the United Keetoowah Band of Cherokee Indians and a Muscogee descendant.
Virginia Stroud was born in Madera, California, on March 13, 1951. Her mother died when she was eleven, so Stroud moved to Muskogee, Oklahoma, to live with her sister. She sold her first painting at the age of 13.
Stroud graduated from Muskogee High School in 1968. From 1968 to 1970, she attended Bacone College and studied art under Cheyenne painter Dick West, who made her his studio assistant. She then attended the University of Oklahoma.
In her late 20s, Stroud was adopted, following Kiowa tradition, as a daughter of Evelyn Tahome and Jacob Ahtone, a Kiowa couple.
In 1969, Stroud served as Miss Cherokee Tribal Princess. She went on to win the title Miss National Congress of American Indians in 1970, and in 1971, she was crowned Miss Indian America XVII. When Stroud competed for the title of princess in 1969, Cherokee women wanted her to represent the tribe in a "traditional" Cherokee outfit, which was problematic since Cherokee women wore contemporary mainstream fashions for at least two centuries and wore very little clothing before that. A committee of Cherokee women, appointed by Chief W. W. Keeler designed a dress based on a hundred-year-old Cherokee dress owned by a Cherokee lady, Wynona Day, and from surrounding Southeast tribes' formal regalia, and they created the "Tear Dress." Elizabeth Higgins (Cherokee Nation) sewed the first tear dress for Stroud.
Stroud painted with tempera and gouache and was a fine art printmaker. She also has written and illustrated several children's books. She drew inspiration from Bacone school Flatstyle painting and historical ledger art, as well as ancient pictographs. Over her career, Stroud developed a narrative style with minimal facial details in her people and lavish floral backgrounds. She also painted kinetic wooden sculptures and fine art furniture.
Her work is in such public collections as the Gilcrease Museum, Millicent Rogers Museum, Philbrook Museum of Art, Fred Jones Jr. Museum of Art, Cherokee Heritage Center, and Cherokee Nation Entertainment.
Of her work, Stroud said: "I paint for my people. Art is a way for our culture to survive... perhaps the only way."
Stroud died in Tahlequah, Oklahoma, on November 8, 2024, at the age of 73.
In 1970, Stroud became the youngest Native artist to win first place in the Woodlands division of the Philbrook Museum's annual juried art show. In 1982, the Indian Arts and Crafts Association honored Stroud as Artist of the Year. The Five Civilized Tribes Museum declared Stroud a Master Artist in 1986. In 2000, she was given the Cherokee Medal of Honor.
Doesn't Fall off His Horse: A Cherokee Tale. Dial, 1994. ISBN 978-0-8037-1635-3.
A Walk to the Great Mystery: A Cherokee Tale. Dial, 1995. ISBN 978-0-8037-1636-0.
The Path of the Quiet Elk: A Native American Alphabet Book. Dial, 1996. ISBN 978-0-8037-1718-3.
Sharron Ahtone Harjo (Kiowa)
Conley, Robert L. A Cherokee Encyclopedia. Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press, 2007. ISBN 978-0-8263-3951-5.
Lester, Patrick D. The Biographical Directory of Native American Painters. Norman: Oklahoma University Press, 1995. ISBN 0-8061-9936-9.
Power, Susan C. Art of the Cherokee: Prehistory to Present. Athens, Georgia: University of Georgia Press, 2007. ISBN 978-0-8203-2766-2
Pakistan competed at the 2019 World Championships in Athletics in Doha, Qatar, from 27 September-6 October 2019, with their sole athlete, Arshad Nadeem, competing in the men's javelin throw event.
Trupanea andobana is a species of tephritid or fruit flies in the genus Trupanea of the family Tephritidae.
The Warren County Regiment was established on January 3, 1779 by the North Carolina General Assembly when Bute County and its Regiment of militia were abolished. The regiment was engaged in battles and skirmished in North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia.
Colonel Thomas Eaton, commander (1779-1783), former commander of the Bute County Regiment (1776-1779)
Colonel Herbert Haynes, second colonel (1779-1783)
Lieutenant Colonels:
Lt. Col. Alexander Dick
Lt. Col. Philemon Hawkins, Jr.
Lt. Col. William Christmas
Lt. Col. Joseph Hawkins
The regiment was known to be involved in 11 battles, skirmishes and sieges:
March 3, 1779, Battle of Briar/Brier Creek, Georgia
June 20, 1779, Battle of Stono Ferry, South Carolina
August 11, 1780, Battle of Little Lynches Creek, South Carolina
August 16, 1780, Battle of Camden, South Carolina
September 26, 1780, Battle of Charlotte. North Carolina
December 4, 1780, Battle of Rugeley's Mills #2, South Carolina
January 17, 1781, Battle of Cowpens, South Carolina
March 15, 1781, Battle of Guilford Court House, North Carolina
April 25, 1781, Battle of Hobkirk's Hill, South Carolina
May 12, 1781, Battle of Fort Motte, South Carolina
May 24 to June 1, 1781, Siege of Augusta, Georgia
Bute County, North Carolina
Warren County, North Carolina
Franklin County, North Carolina
Bute County Regiment
Southern Campaigns: Pension Transactions for a description of the transcription effort by Will Graves
Southern theater of the American Revolutionary War
List of North Carolina militia units in the American Revolution
This is a Chronological list of Bengali-language authors (regardless of nationality or religion), by the order of their year of birth. Alphabetical order is used only when chronological order cannot be ascertained.
The list also marks the winners of major international and national awards:
For an alphabetic listing of Bengali language authors please refer to alphabetic list of Bengali language authors.
Biletey Bishshotoker Bangla Kobi, Robbani Chowdhury, Agamee Prokasion, Dhaka, 2000
History of Bengali Literature, Rabbani Choudhury, Utso, Dhaka, 2010
Bangla Literature, an English magazine edited by Sayeed Abybakar [1]
The McCawley-class attack transport was a class of US Navy attack transport built in 1928 that saw service in World War II.
Like all attack transports, the purpose of the McCawley-class ships was to transport troops and their equipment to hostile shores in order to execute amphibious invasions. Attack transports carried a substantial number of integral landing craft for making the assault, and were well armed with antiaircraft weaponry to protect themselves and their vulnerable cargo of troops from air attack in the battle zone.
The McCawley class is amongst the few classes of attack transport that were converted from pre-war tonnage rather than being built during the war from either Maritime Commission or Victory ship hull types. The two ships of this class also hold the distinction of being the only attack transports not to be built in the United States.
The origin of the two ships which were to become the McCawley class goes back to a United States government decision in the 1920s that allowed foreign-built ships to retain eligibility for US mail contracts. Accordingly, the American shipping company Grace Lines ordered two cargo liners from the Furness Shipbuilding Company of Haverton Hill-on-Tees in Northern England, which were completed in 1928 as Santa Barbara and Santa Maria. These ships were the first large diesel-powered passenger ships to sail under the American flag.
The two Grace Lines ships continued to operate between the United States and South America, and later on US coastal mail runs, until being bought by the US Navy for conversion to troop transports in late 1940. The conversions were duly carried out, and Santa Barbara and Santa Maria became USS McCawley (AP-10) and USS Barnett (AP-11) respectively. They were reclassified as attack transports APA-4 and APA-5 on 1 February 1943.
The McCawleys were each powered by two eight-cylinder, two-cycle, 4,000 horsepower (3,000 kW) diesel engines yielding a total horsepower of 8000 and a top speed of around 16 knots (30 km/h). In commercial service they carried 150 passengers and had a gross tonnage of 8000. After conversion to attack transports, they had a troop capacity of about 1,300 and a cargo capacity of about 165,000 cubic feet (4,700 m3).
They were each armed with four 3"/50 caliber dual-purpose guns and a variable assortment of secondary armament.
Both ships saw their first action in the long and bitterly fought Guadalcanal campaign in the Pacific Theatre. Sadly, this would prove to be McCawley's one and only campaign. After participating in the initial landings in August 1942 as the command ship of Admiral Richmond K. Turner, and continuing in support missions to the island for the next nine months, she was mistaken for an enemy vessel by US Navy PT boats on the night of 30 June 1943 and sunk by torpedoes.
Her sister ship, Barnett, survived the Guadalcanal campaign and went on to take part in most of the major amphibious operations in the European Theatre, including the invasions of Sicily, Italy, Normandy and Southern France, before returning to the Pacific to participate in the invasion of Okinawa in 1945. Barnett was decommissioned along with most other attack transports in early 1946, and sold into commercial service not long thereafter.
Lane, Kerry, Guadalcanal Marine, University Press of Mississippi, 2004
McCawley APA-4, DANFS Online.
Barnett AP-11 Archived 1 March 2008 at the Wayback Machine, DANFS Online.
Grace Lines, Ocean Liner Virtual Museum.
Helichrysum gossypinum, also known as cotton wool everlasting or yellow tinderbox, is a species of flowering plant within the genus Helichrysum and family Asteraceae. The species is endemic to the island of Lanzarote of the Canary Islands. Due to being an endemic species it can be found nowhere else in the world. The plant is characterized by its large vibrant yellow flowers and its ability to thrive in rocky habitats.
Helichrysum gossypinum is a basal flowering plant with a shrubby growth habit, which lacks rosettes and overwintering buds. The inflorescence of Helichrysum gossypinum consists of heterogamous capitula, meaning that the gender ratio within each capitulum is not uniform. Each capitulum is composed of numerous florets, which are the individual flowers within the inflorescence. The inflorescence are large and yellow in colour, reaching a size of 6–8 mm in diameter. H. gossypinum is a diploid plant with 2n = 28 chromosomes.
Helichrysum gossypinum is endemic to Lanzarote, one of several Canary Islands located within the Atlantic Ocean off the Northwestern coast of Africa. The species on the island is distributed across six subpopulations located in: El Jurado, Riscos de Famara, Barranco del Cuchillo, Barranco de Chafarís, Ladera de Tenegüime, and Malpaís del Sobaco. The entire population of the species is spread between these six known subpopulations, with the overall population estimated at just over 7000 individuals. H. gossypinum has a restricted range, inhabiting an area of occupancy measuring approximately 13.5 square kilometers (5.2 sq mi).
The habitat of Helichrysum gossypinum primarily consists of rocky areas such as inland cliffs, mountain peaks, ridges, and the slopes of ravines. The habitat of H. gossypinum is geologically unstable and prone to landslides. Lanzarote consists of volcanic rock types and moderately alkaline soils. H. gossypinum thrives in rupicolous communities, often coexisting with plant species such as Aeonium lancerottense and Reichardia famarae.
Lanzarote is an island known for its mild and stable climate, with minimal variations in temperatures between summer and winter. The annual average temperature on the island is 20.7 °C (69.26 °F). Over a 28-year period, the average rainfall has been estimated at 110 meters squared, although particularly dry years can result in a decrease of up to 25% in the amount of rainwater. The majority of rainfall occurs between the months of November, December, and January, accounting for 57% of the annual precipitation. Humidity levels on the island fluctuate throughout the day and night, influenced by air temperature. During the day, increased sunshine leads to higher humidity levels that do not reach saturation. However, during the night, as the air cools down, humidity reaches saturation and condenses into liquid water when it comes into contact with cold surfaces. This phenomenon contributes a significant amount of water to the ecosystem and provides H. gossypinum with water as a result.
The species faces several threats that endanger its survival. Threats such as predation on seedlings by livestock poses a significant risk to the population. Additionally, landslides, which are common in the geologically unstable habitat and can cause further damage to plants and their surroundings. The island of Lanzarote is also home to the closely related, equally endemic and critically endangered species H. monogynum, which is capable of hybridization with H. gossypinum, harming the genetic integrity of both species. Anthropogenic factors also contribute to the plants vulnerability, with both road construction and road works having been reported to negatively effect the species.
Efforts to conserve Helichrysum gossypinum focus on the protection of its subpopulations. Subpopulations of H. gossypinum are located within protected areas, such as: Paisaje Protegido de La Geria, Paisaje Protegido Barranco de Tenegüime, and Parque Natural Archipiélago Chinijo. These protected areas help safeguard the species and its habitat from further harm and provide a sanctuary for its survival.
In addition, the botanical garden Jardín Botánico Canario Viera y Clavijo possesses a seed bank. Seeds of Helichrysum gossypinum were collected and are being stored within their repository, which serves as a valuable resource in preserving the genetic diversity of the species.
Helichrysum gossypinum also holds significant recognition in international legislation. It has been designated as an important species and is included in Annex II of the Habitats Directive. Furthermore, it is listed under Appendix I of the Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife and Natural Habitats (Bern Convention). In Spain, it is regarded as a species with "Protección Especial" and is featured in the national list of species under special protection. Additionally, it has been categorized as VU D2 in the Spanish Red List.
The Surveyor General of Arizona is served by the State Treasurer, Kimberly Yee. Some duties of the Surveyor-General are fulfilled by the Arizona State Land Commissioner
The 2005 European Champion Clubs Cup (ECCC) in athletics was held in Lagos, Portugal, from 27 to 28 May 2005.
Men's winning clubs
Women's winning clubs
European Champion Clubs Cup History
Equinox (Japanese: イクイノックス, Hepburn: Ikuinokkusu; foaled March 23, 2019) is a retired champion Japanese Thoroughbred racehorse and current sire. He won both of his races as a two-year-old in 2021, taking the Grade II Tokyo Sports Hai Nisai Stakes on his second start. In the early part of his second season he finished second in both the Satsuki Sho and the Tokyo Yushun before emerging as a high-class horse in the autumn when he won the Autumn Tenno Sho and the Arima Kinen.
Prior to retiring in November 2023, he won all of his races as a four-year-old, the Dubai Sheema Classic, the Takarazuka Kinen, an Autumn Tenno Sho repeat, and the Japan Cup. Equinox was the world's highest-rated horse in 2023. He was voted Japanese Horse of the Year in 2022 and 2023. On 16 May 2025, Equinox was selected as the 38th inductee into Japan Racing Association Hall of Fame.
Equinox is out of the first crop of Kitasan Black. Kitasan Black, who was owned by enka singer Saburo Kitajima, won seven G1 races during his career. His dam was Chateau Blanche, a winner of the Mermaid Stakes. Her sire was the Takamatsunomiya Kinen winner King Halo.
Equinox was foaled at the Northern Farm in Abira, Hokkaido on March 23, 2019. He was owned by Silk Racing, an organization that offers stakes in horse ownership (Hitokuchi Banushi; Japanese: 一口馬主) for a total of 40 million yen (500 shares with each share sold for 80,000 yen), and was raised at Northern Farm Hayakita. According to the manger chief Yuki Kuwata, based on how his body grew as well as distance aptitude, the goal was set to be Kikuka Sho, the same race his sire won in 2015. He was later put to training with Tetsuya Kimura of Miho Training Center.
Equinox made his debut at a 1800 meter long maiden race on August 28 at Niigata Racecourse with Christophe Lemaire as his jockey. During the race, he came in to the lead on the final stretch, passing Circle of Life and the other horses, finishing the race with a six length lead. The acceleration Equinox showed surprised Kuwata, who had thought the horse was going to be more of a stayer.
Equinox's next race was the Tokyo Sports Hai Nisai Stakes (GII) held on November 20, where he was the most favored. During the race, the horse stayed with the pack, only to pass the others on the final stretch with the record of 32.9 seconds for the final 3 furlongs and winning his first group race. This also marked the first group race that a horse sired by Kitasan Black won.
As previously planned, Equinox did not use any trial races, and headed straight to Satsuki Sho as his first race of the season; which saw him take a 147 day long break. At the Satsuki Sho, Equinox was the third favored behind JRA Award for Best Two-Year-Old Colt winner Do Deuce and Tokinominoru Kinen winner Danon Beluga. Equinox started the race from the furthest gate, and came in to the final stretch in third place. He passed all the other horses but was passed by Geoglyph, who was also trained by Kimura, at the last second and came in second place。Equinox's jockey Lemaire commented that "it was after a long break, but he performed well. Since he started from the outside we couldn't create a wall, but we were able to make a winner. I think we have a big chance at the Derby".
Equinox then headed to the Tokyo Yushun (Japanese Derby) on May 29, where he was the 2nd most favored behind Danon Beluga, who had come in 4th place at Satsuki Sho. He started the race third from last, and at the final stretch covered the last 3 furlongs at 33.6 seconds to close the gaps, but was beaten by Do Deuce by a neck. Lemaire remarked "I marked the winner on the stretch and tried to go after him as I went on the outside, but my opponent passed me back".
It was then announced that Equinox's next race would be the Autumn leg of the Tenno Sho. It was also announced that he had damaged his left foreleg at the Derby but was recovering well.
As announced, Equinox entered the Tenno Sho on October 30, where he started favourite. After making a good start, he was in the middle of the pack chasing Panthalassa, who was running at a high pace of 57.4 seconds/1000 meters. As the horse entered the final stretch, Lemaire urged the horse forward, catching Panthalassa at the last second, covering what Lemaire said was at least 15 lengths with the speed of 32.7 seconds over the last 3 furlongs, marking his first GI victory. This was the second year in a row, and the fifth ever, where a three-year old won the Autumn Tenno Sho, with Efforia being the previous year's winner. Equinox's win also marked the fastest win in any horse's career as he was the first horse to have won the race after running just five races, and also became the first flat G1 race of the season where the most favored horse won the race, breaking the spell after 16 consecutive losses for the most favored. Equinox's victory also marked the first GI victory of any Kitasan Black sire, and the fourth parent-child pair ever to win the same Autumn Tenno Sho Race. During the post-race interview Lemaire commented "Spring was unlucky for him, but I was able to show the true Equinox" and "this may be his first GI, but this won't be the last. I believe he can still win more GI titles".
It was then announced that his next race would be that year's Arima Kinen, to be held on December 25. Equinox gained many fan votes and gained a total of 294,688 votes, which was the third highest.At the Arima Kinen, Equinox was the most favored. After the race began, he was in the rear of the pack that was chasing Titleholder. Just before the third corner Equinox started to move on to the outside, and started to pick up the pace as he made the fourth corner. At the final stretch, after Lemaire urged the horse to go faster, he picked up even more pace and crossed the finishing pole, not letting any other horses come near him. This victory marked the 21st horse ever to win the Arima as a three year old, and a second year in a row after Efforia last year. Equinox also became the third horse ever to win both the Tenno Sho (Autumn) and Arima as a three-year old, and the fastest ever for any horse to win the Arima with just six races to his career. This race also became the first Arima since 1994 for the top two to be won by a three-year old, as Boldog Hos was also a three-year old.
On January 17, the World's Best Racehorse Rankings of 2022 was announced, where Equinox was rated third at 126 pounds alongside Nature Strip, citing his two major victories the previous year as well as being named the Horse of the Year. As the 1st place (Flightline) and 2nd place (Baaeed) had both retired by this point, he became the de facto highest-rated active horse.
For his first race of the season, it was announced that they would go to the Dubai Sheema Classic, which would make it his first foreign race. Later, he was formally invited to enter the race, and the invitation was accepted.
In the race, Equinox for the first time in his career took the lead from the start and won with a record of 2:25:65. The win also marked the first foreign victory of any Kitasan Black offspring.
After the race, Lemaire commented, "I knew he was the greatest horse, and I'm very happy I was able to create this pace" and "This is the first time I won this race since Heart's Cry, who passed away two weeks ago. I would like to thank Equinox for making this opportunity to pay my tribute to him".
On April 14, the Longine World Best Racehorse Ranking (which tabulates all major races from that year up until April 9) was announced, and citing Equinox's 3 and a half length victory at Dubai, he was the highest rated horse at 129 pounds. This was the third time a Japanese-trained horse became the highest rated in the ranking, after 2014's Just A Way and 2016's A Shin Hikari.
On May 26, it was announced by Silk Racing that Equinox and Lemaire would head to the Takarazuka Kinen. A few days later, the CEO of Silk Racing, Masashi Yonemoto, also announced that the horse would ultimately head to the Japan Cup if his condition was good after Takarazuka. The official fan polling which was held in the lead-up to the Takarazuka Kinen had Equinox consistently leading, with the final tally at 216,379 votes.
On June 25, Equinox entered the Takarazuka Kinen as planned. The horse did not have a good start and briefly lost his balance but held through and ran in the rear of the pack. At the third corner, Equinox started to move to the outside and went forward to take the lead as he and the pack ran past the fourth corner, barely beating Through Seven Seas by a neck, marking his fourth consecutive win. This victory made Equinox the 16th horse to win both Grand Prixs (Arima and Takarazuka) and the 21st horse to earn more than 1 billion yen at JRA races as well as the fastest to earn as much with eight career races at that point.
After a summer break, it was announced by Silk Racing on September 18 that, before the Japan Cup, Equinox would race the Tenno Sho (Autumn) again, this time facing Do Deuce, who had beaten him at the Tokyo Yushun the year before.
On October 29, Equinox ran the early stage of the race from 3rd following Jack d'Or's high-paced run. As the pack entered the final stretch, Equinox quickly passed Jack d'Or and Gaia Force, and without letting Justin Palace catch up, he crossed the finishing line with a new world record of 1:55.2, marking his fifth consecutive GI win and becoming the third horse ever to win the Autumn Tenno Sho two years in a row. After the race, Lemaire praised his horse, saying, "I was relieved. Equinox is the greatest horse after all. Everyone in the world wanted to see him race. I was able to show Equinox's strength" and "Equinox has everything. He can take a good position from the start, and can run calmly after that, and can run well towards the end also. He also has stamina. He's a perfect horse". With this win, Equinox's total earnings in JRA races reached 1,252,692,000 yen, surpassing Contrail to become the 10th highest earner. If the earnings from the Dubai Sheema Classic were factored, the total earnings would reach 1,711,582,100 yen, surpassing Orfevre and becoming the 6th highest earner ever.
As previously announced, Equinox headed to the Japan Cup on November 26. During the race, Equinox placed himself third behind runners Panthalassa and Titleholder, before taking the lead as the pack entered the final stretch and beat Liberty Island by four lengths, clocking in at 2:21.8. This victory made Equinox the first ever horse to earn over 2-billion yen (2,215,446,100JPY), and also the third horse in JRA history to win six consecutive Grade I races in a row after T M Opera O and Lord Kanaloa.
After the victory at the Japan Cup, discussions were made as to whether the horse should be entered in to the Arima Kinen or be retired to stud, with the head of Silk Racing quoted as saying all options were on the table; it was ultimately announced on November 30 that the horse will not be entered to Arima and will stand stud at the Shadai Stallion Station starting from 2024.
Upon Equinox's retirement, Kitasan Black's owner, Saburo Kitajima, made a statement to Nikkan Sports, celebrating and thanking the horse's career.
A retirement ceremony was held for Equinox on December 16 at Nakayama Racecourse, with the ceremony being streamed on the official YouTube channel of the JRA.
Equinox was sold to Shadai Stallion Station for 5 billion JPY upon becoming a stallion, and arrived at the farm on December 18. He was given a stable facing his sire, Kitasan Black. According to Keisuke Miwa, an employee at Shadai Stallion Station, "They have a great relationship," and "Equinox sees what his father does, and he behaves very similarly."
On December 7, Equinox's service fee for the 2024 season was announced to be at 20 million yen; which would be the same price as his sire for that season. This broke the previous record held by Deep Impact and Contrail's 12 million yen for the highest service fee of any first year sire.
In 2025, the first foals by Equinox, a colt out of Prix Penelope Grade 3 winner Camprock, and a filly out of the multiple Grade 2 winner La Force were born in January at Shiraoi farm and Northern Farm in Abira, Hokkaido, respectively. Also in 2025, three of the five most expensive foals at the JRHA Select Sale were progeny of Equinox. A colt out of champion American mare Midnight Bisou by Equinox sold for 580 million yen at the auction, which is the third highest price in the history of the JRHA Select Sale. Tetsuya Kimura, a potential trainer for the colt, told Idol Horse "If he can blend the strongest parts from both his father and his mother, he will be a very nice horse... I wouldn’t be surprised if he is a dirt horse and can have great success in the years ahead."
On February 1, 2026, 2022 Shuka Sho and 2024 Queen Elizabeth II Cup winner Stunning Rose gave birth to her first foal after her retirement; the foal is a filly by Equinox and features a blaze similar to that of her sire.
Below data is based on data available on JBIS Search, netkeiba.com, Emirates Racing Authority, and Total Performance Data.
Media related to Equinox (horse) at Wikimedia Commons
Markino may refer to:
Markino Buckley, Jamaican athlete
Yoshio Markino, Japanese artist
Dance Ikon is an Indian Telugu-language dance reality show hosted by Ohmkar streaming on aha.
Dance Ikon at IMDb
The Art of Doing Nothing is the fourth solo studio album from Take That band member and singer-songwriter Mark Owen. The album was released on 7 June 2013 in Germany and 10 June 2013 in the UK, eight years since the release of his third studio album, How the Mighty Fall. The album was produced by Charlie Russell and Bradley Spence, with additional production on two tracks by Starsmith. The album was preceded by the release of the lead single "Stars", debuting at number 135 on the UK Albums Chart. The album has sold 6,360 copies in the UK.
In March 2012, The Sun reported that Owen was planning to re-launch his solo career and that he had been putting together new material. It was reported in June 2012 that Owen had recorded a number of electronic tracks and was toying with the idea of including different genres within the same project; it was also report that he had been working with producer Starsmith, who had previously worked with the likes of Ellie Goulding and Cheryl Cole. In October 2012, Owen previewed the recording of the album during the ninth series of The X Factor, inviting bandmate Gary Barlow and his category of contestants along to the recording studio to watch him making final touches to the album.
In March 2013, further details of the album emerged, including the album title, "The Art of Doing Nothing" and the conformation that Owen had recorded the majority of the album in his garden shed studio, known as the "rabbit hutch". The album was then mixed in New York at the Electric Lady Studios by Michael Brauer, Charlie Russell, Ben Mark and Jamie Norton. He confirmed the album would feature a collaboration with singer-songwriter Ren Harvieu along with production from Alt-J producer Charlie Russell. A source said, "Mark is really excited about the album—he sees it more as a collaborative work than a solo album, something he made with a collection of his friends. He's worked with some really interesting people on it including Ren Harvieu and Charlie Russell, the producer who has worked with Alt-J, as well as some brilliant illustrators, photographers, and film makers. People will be surprised by the results—it's not what fans will expect."
Owen said of the album title, "It's called The Art of Doing Nothing. It's like a project. The name came about because when anybody asks me what I'm up to, I say 'nothing', so now I'm calling it "The Art of Doing Nothing". On 1 May 2013, Owen uploaded new photographs and videos to his official website, including the deluxe album artwork, which depicts Mark in a white room, scribbling on the wall, while wearing a dapper hat. A tagline to accompany the artwork reads: "Every idea has a starting place. Nothing begins in an empty space." The two videos consist of a montage video, picturing the photo-shoot that shot the album cover and the second, which is a short interview with Owen, in which he discusses the album's contents and cover.
The album received positive reviews, especially for the single "Stars" and "S.A.D.". Heather Maloney of Examiner.com described the album as "an amazing work of art". Robert Copsey from Digital Spy wrote: "For an artist often perceived to be bashful, the results are surprisingly compelling."
"Stars" was released as the lead single from the album on 3 May 2013. The single premiered on BBC Radio 2 on the Ken Bruce show, before the music video was released later that afternoon. The video depicts Owen in an astronaut suit, walking around a city centre, in a shopping mall, and dancing at a disco, all while trying to escape from the suit.
The standard edition of the album contains ten tracks, while the deluxe contains an extra three. A super-deluxe boxset, containing a fifteen track album, five art prints (one of which is signed and limited to just fifty copies), and a headed notepad with the Mark Owen logo on, is available from Owen's official store.
Charles Winters was an American businessman.
Charles Winters may also refer to:
Chuck Winters (born 1974), former Canadian Football League linebacker and defensive back
Charles Winter (disambiguation)
The 2020 USA Indoor Track and Field Championships were held at the Albuquerque Convention Center in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Organized by USA Track and Field (USATF), the two-day competition took place from February 14 to February 15 and serves as the national championships in track and field for the United States.
The heptathlon and pentathlon being contested as part of the 2020 USATF Indoor Combined Events Championships will be held February 7-8, 2020 at the United States Naval Academy’s Wesley Brown Field House in Annapolis, Maryland.
Events in bold will be contested at the Championships.
November 17, 2019 - February 9, 2020 window.
The 2020 USA Indoor Track and Field Championships serve as the qualification meet for United States representatives in international competitions, including the 2020 IAAF World Indoor Championships from 13 to 15 March 2020 in Nanjing, China. In order to be entered, athletes need to achieve a qualifying standard mark and place in the top 2 in their event and top 12 in the world. The United States team, as managed by USATF, can also bring a qualified back up athlete in case one of the team members is unable to perform.
Additionally, defending 2019 IAAF World Indoor Tour Winner (received a wildcard spot subject to ratification by their country) and World Champions received byes into the 2020 World Championships. The athletes eligible for a bye are:
Courtney Okolo - 400 m
Will Claye - Triple Jump
Christian Coleman - 60 m
Kendra Harrison - 60 m hurdles
Sandi Morris - Pole Vault
Nathan Strother - 400 m
Jarret Eaton - 60 m hurdles
2020 USATF Indoor Track and Field Championships Home Page
A Tiparillo is a shorter, thinner, and milder version of a cigar with a plastic tip. It is manufactured by the General Cigar Company. The name Tiparillo, a portmanteau of tip and cigarillo, was trademarked on July 3, 1961 by the Pinkerton Tobacco Company of Owensboro, Kentucky.
Postwar cigar makers sought to transform the image of their product to attract younger smokers and women who preferred cigarettes. The Tiparillo was developed in response to this desire.
Vladislav Tseytlin (born 23 August 1971) is an Uzbekistani football referee who has been a full international referee for FIFA.
Tseytlin became a FIFA referee in 2002. He has served as a referee in the 2006 and 2014 FIFA World Cup qualifiers.
The 2002 Virginia Tech Hokies football team represented the Virginia Tech in the 2002 NCAA Division I-A football season. The team's head coach was Frank Beamer.
Sybra regalis is a species of beetle in the family Cerambycidae. It was described by Breuning in 1939.
InkML is an XML-based markup language to describe "ink" data input with an electronic pen or stylus. The recommended specification was published by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) in September 2011.
It is part of the W3C Multimodal Interaction Activity initiative.
InkML Toolkit (InkMLTk) is targeted at providing a suite of tools for working with InkML documents.
The toolkit includes the following libraries and tools,
InkML processor libraries implementing the W3C InkML specification
Converters library and tools (to and from other ink and image formats)
InkML viewers as browser plug-ins, and
InkML applications such as a graphical editor.
This project is released on SourceForge as an open source contribution from HP Labs, India.
Ink Serialized Format
InkML Specification
InkML Toolkit - open source contribution from HP Labs, India
Complete Best may refer to:
Complete Best (Celine Dion album), 2008
Complete Best (Sweetbox album), 2007
Complete Best, Day After Tomorrow album
Perfume: Complete Best, 2006
Beauty on Parade is a 1950 American drama film directed by Lew Landers and starring Robert Hutton, Ruth Warrick and Lola Albright. It opened in Los Angeles on March 18, 1950, as the second feature to Guilty of Treason.
Having abandoned her dreams of beauty-queen stardom 20 years earlier when she married, a mother channels her ambitions through her young daughter, who win a beauty pageant and is entered into a national contest.
Robert Hutton as Gil McRoberts
Ruth Warrick as Marian Medford
Lola Albright as Kay Woodstock
John Ridgely as Jeffrey Woodstock
Hillary Brooke as Gloria Barton
Wally Vernon as Sam Short
Jimmy Lloyd as Johnny Fennell
Donna Gibson as Mona Booker
Frank Sully as Murph
Robert C. Hasha as Walker
Lillian Bronson as Mrs. Enfield-Hyphen-Hatch
Bernard F. Dick. Columbia Pictures: Portrait of a Studio. University Press of Kentucky, 2015.
Beauty on Parade at IMDb
This is a list of members of the 9th National Assembly of South Korea which sat from 12 March 1973 until 11 March 1979.
1973 South Korean legislative election
National Assembly (South Korea)#History
Arctoscyphus is a genus of liverworts belonging to the family Solenostomataceae.
The species of this genus are found in southernmost America.
Arctoscyphus fuegiensis (C.Massal.) Hässel
Arctoscyphus ronsmithii Hässel
Montceau-et-Écharnant (French pronunciation: [mɔ̃so e eʃaʁnɑ̃]) is a commune in the Côte-d'Or department in eastern France.
Communes of the Côte-d'Or department
Sophronica mediorufoantennata is a species of beetle in the family Cerambycidae. It was described by Stephan von Breuning in 1968.
Mahitha Mohan is an Indian cyclist who has competed in road, track, and mountain bike events. She has won multiple national championships and represented India in international competitions, including the South Asian Games, where she won a gold medal in the women’s 50 km mass start event.
Mahitha Mohan is from Kerala, India, and began competitive cycling at a young age. She began cycling in her early teens, with limited access to facilities.
Mohan emerged as a leading cyclist in India through her performances in national competitions across road, track, and mountain biking disciplines. She gained recognition at the 2010 South Asian Games, where she won the gold medal in the women’s 50 km mass start event.
She also achieved success at the National Games, winning multiple gold medals, including in the individual road time trial and track cycling events.
Mohan’s achievements came during a period when competitive cycling in India had limited infrastructure and international success. She was named India's best cyclist in 2010.
Jack Edward Dunlap (November 14, 1927 – July 23, 1963) was a United States Army sergeant stationed at the National Security Agency, and a spy for the Soviet Union in the early 1960s.
Dunlap enlisted in the U.S. Army in 1952 and served with distinction in the Korean War. He was gradually promoted to sergeant and was assigned to the NSA in 1958. He was given top secret messages to carry to NSA officials before they had been encrypted. Moreover, Dunlap was given a top-secret security clearance to view these "plaintext" messages before handing them over to the NSA, and therefore was able to read and make copies of them.
Learning of Dunlap's sensitive position, a KGB agent approached him in 1958, bluntly offering him to be "paid handsomely" for the contents of the pouches he was carrying. Before delivering the documents, Dunlap slipped them under his shirt, drove to a meeting point in Washington, D.C., had his contact make copies or photograph them, then returned them to the pouch and made his delivery. It was later estimated that Dunlap was receiving from the Soviets between $40,000 and $50,000 a year. When neighbors asked about his new riches, Dunlap said that he had inherited a plantation in Louisiana. NSA security paid no attention to Dunlap's new lifestyle. In 1963, he was about to be transferred to another post, which would cut off his access to documents. To continue making money from the Soviets, Dunlap believed that he could stay on at NSA by simply not re-enlisting when his tour of duty expired.
As an army sergeant assigned to the NSA, he was not subject to a polygraph examination. When he retired from the Army, his Soviet handlers told him to apply for a civilian position, which he did. He was given a polygraph examination by NSA on a Friday and while he passed the examination, the examiner told the FBI there was something that made him uneasy and told Dunlap to come back on Monday. Dunlap killed himself over the weekend by carbon monoxide poisoning.
The Director of Security for NSA told FBI agents that he and his assistant paid a visit to Dunlap's widow to offer their condolences, and she said, "You probably want his papers", showing them classified material. That was when the NSA realized Dunlap had been a spy. Dunlap was a personable individual and roamed around within NSA. One secretary told the FBI that he stopped at her desk to chat and would see papers in her out box and tell her he was headed in that direction and take the papers. He would stop at a Xerox machine on the way and make a copy for the Soviets.
His activities were reported to have been the cause of the downfall of Oleg Penkovsky.
As a United States Army veteran, Dunlap was buried at Arlington National Cemetery.
Bamford, James (1982). The Puzzle Palace. Penguin Books. pp. 196–200.
Elizabeth Little may refer to:
Elizabeth Stevens (1923–2008, born Little), New Zealand artist
Betty Little (born 1940), New York State Senator
Elizabeth Little (tennis) (born 1960), Australian tennis player
Mátraháza is a resort area within the town of Gyöngyös in Heves County, Hungary, situated in the Mátra mountain range. Mátraháza has its own postal code, 3233, and is located 14.4 km from the center of Gyöngyös. The highest peak in Hungary, Kékes, is 3.7 km from Mátraháza. As of the 2022 census, the population of Mátraháza is 80.
As the first step in the development of the resort, the Mátra Association created a marked trail in the Kalló Valley in 1888, at the end of which Pál Klimó established a forest rest area. In 1907, the construction of the road connecting Gyöngyös with Parád was completed, and the workers' house was acquired by the Mátra Association, led by Kolos Hanák, and converted into a hostel. Between 1927 and 1930, the Mátra Association built the Kékesalja Hostel. The lung sanatorium and the road leading to Kékes were completed in 1932, and a ski slope was created from Kékes to the Kékesalja Hostel. The military resort was built in 1933.
The Patrona Hungariae chapel was built in 1942, and its wooden relief door was created in 1999 by the sculptor István Hegedűs. The Kékesalja Hostel became a trade union resort in 1949 and was renamed the Sports Hotel. In 1958, the Vörösmarty Hostel was built, named after the poet Mihály Vörösmarty, the first known tourist of Mátra, who wrote a travel report in 1829 about his hike. The Hanák Kolos Hostel was demolished in 1960 and replaced by a sports field and a training camp. A ski jumping hill was also created in 1960, with a jump record of 83.5 meters, but the facility became unusable by 1980.
After 1990, the Sports Hotel closed, then reopened as Hotel Pagoda, but later closed again. The Vörösmarty Hostel and the bus station are stamping places for the National Blue Trail.
List of highest paved roads in Europe by country
Very Young and Early Songs is a compilation album by British singer-songwriter Cat Stevens. It was released on 1 November 1971 by Deram Records. It collects material from Stevens's early Deram era, and was the first official US release for the singles "A Bad Night", "Lovely City", "Here Comes My Wife", and "Where Are You", as well as their B-sides.
The compilation's content stems from Stevens's initial period of fame as a teenage pop star in the United Kingdom. Under the guidance of producer Mike Hurst, he recorded several catchy and heavily orchestrated tracks which scored UK chart hits. Also a songwriter, he sold multiple songs to other artists, such as "The First Cut is the Deepest" to P.P Arnold. Around this time, he was making a reported amount of £1000 a week.
But unbeknownst to Stevens, his career was about to nosedive. "I felt lonely out there and I began to drink and smoke heavily," reflected Stevens later on. Stevens’ and Hurst’s relationship, which was already deteriorating, finally broke when an agent Hurst had appointed tried to book Stevens onto a pantomime over Christmas. After Stevens’ refusal, the agent told him he was making a huge mistake. New Masters, Stevens’ second album, was recorded with lawyers present in the studio. Deram hardly promoted the album, and it ended up not charting. The next single, “Lovely City”, also didn’t reach the top 50.
On 2 March 1968, Stevens was rushed into a hospital after being diagnosed with tuberculosis. The diagnosis was hushed up, even Hurst hadn’t been told until later. After recovering, a new single, “Here Comes My Wife” was released in September, supposedly coming with another album, which never came to fruition. The last single Cat Stevens recorded for Deram, “Where Are You”, with the B-side “The View from the Top”, was recorded and released in mid-1969, featuring Stevens reunited with producer Hurst once more. It flopped, but by 1970 Stevens had a brand new contract with Island, and he would release Mona Bone Jakon and Tea for the Tillerman, albums that would elevate him to global stardom.
All tracks written by Cat Stevens. Track lengths adapted from the 1988 re-issue of Matthew & Son and the 1989 re-issue of New Masters.
"Here Comes My Wife" – 2:56
"Lovely City (When Do You Laugh?)" – 2:36
"The Tramp" – 2:06
"Come On and Dance" – 2:07
"Image of Hell" – 3:03
"Where Are You" – 2:56
"It's a Super (Dupa) Life" – 2:46
"A Bad Night" – 3:07
"Come on Baby (Shift That Log)" – 3:42
"The View From the Top" – 3:29
Anon. (1971). Very Young and Early Songs (Vinyl). United States: Deram. DES 18061.
Neill, Andy (2003). Matthew & Son (CD). Europe: Deram. 981 082-1.
Neill, Andy (2004). New Masters (CD). Europe: Deram. 981 082-2.
Tracy, John (1988). Matthew & Son (CD). United States: Deram. 820 560–2.
Tracy, John (1989). New Masters (CD). United States: Deram. 820 767-2.
Horinji Dam is an earthfill dam located in Toyama prefecture in Japan. The dam is used for irrigation. The catchment area of the dam is 1.3 km2. The dam impounds about 1 ha of land when full and can store 50 thousand cubic meters of water. The construction of the dam was started on 1953 and completed in 1955.
Sharrod Neasman (born October 14, 1991) is an American former professional football player who was a safety in the National Football League (NFL). He played college football for the Florida Atlantic Owls and was signed by the Atlanta Falcons as an undrafted free agent in 2016.
On May 5, 2016, Neasman signed with the Atlanta Falcons as an undrafted free agent. He was released by the Falcons on September 3, and was signed to the practice squad the next day. He was promoted to the active roster on October 18.
In the 2016 season, Neasman and the Falcons reached Super Bowl LI, where they faced the New England Patriots on February 5, 2017. In the Super Bowl, the Falcons fell in a 34–28 overtime defeat.
In 2017, Neasman played in 11 games, recording two tackles. He was not tendered a contract following the 2017 season.
On May 31, 2018, Neasman signed with the New Orleans Saints. He was waived by New Orleans on September 1.
On September 25, 2018, Neasman was signed by the Falcons. He played in 12 games, recording 44 tackles and four passes defensed.
Neasman re-signed with the Falcons on March 20, 2020.
In Week 15 against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, Neasman recorded his first career sack on Tom Brady during the 31–27 loss.
On June 10, 2021, Neasman signed with the New York Jets. He was placed on injured reserve on September 11. He was activated on October 2. He was released on January 8, 2022 before the season finale.
On January 12, 2022, Neasman was signed to the Los Angeles Rams practice squad. Neasman won Super Bowl LVI when the Rams defeated the Cincinnati Bengals.
Florida Atlantic Owls bio
Only Human is the fourth album released by the Florida-based hard rock music group, Crease. This album was released in 2004, via Whateverman Records.
"Nothing Is Real" – 3:28
"Live to Be in Love" – 4:59
"Wrapped Around You" – 4:29
"Transparent" – 3:51
"Indifferent" – 4:15
"Whipped" – 3:52
"Ordinary" – 3:50
"Obviously" – 3:11
"Just Like Me" – 3:35
"Weight of the World" – 2:57
"Make Me Believe" – 3:54
"Too Late for Love" – 4:41
Kelly Meister - lead vocals
Fritz Dorigo - guitars, vocals
Greg Gershengorn - bass, vocals
Eric Dorigo - drums, percussion
Addition Personal:
Greg Wiktorski - keyboards, programming
Chris Crane - keyboards, programming
Paul Pettitt - keyboards
Charles Dye – producer, mixer, engineer
Greg Gershengorn - producer, engineer
Richard Serotta - engineer
Crease - producer
Paul Trust - producer, engineer
Artistdirect.com
Save the Last Dance 2 (also known as Save the Last Dance 2: Stepping Up) is a 2006 dance drama film and a sequel to the 2001 film Save the Last Dance. It was released to DVD on October 10, 2006, by Paramount Home Entertainment and MTV. While featuring some returning characters, none of the original cast are retained from the original film. R&B singer Ne-Yo makes an appearance in the film.
The film continues the story of Sara Johnson (originally played by Julia Stiles and now portrayed by Izabella Miko). She recalls how she was born to be a dancer. Her mother would often comment that she knew how to pirouette before she could properly walk. From her earliest memories Sara always wanted to be a ballerina, a graceful dancer who could glide across the stage. Inspired by her Idol Philomena Kerplunk played by Suze Williams, It seemed that there was something that caused conflict in Sara's ambition. She also loves the urban dance form of hip-hop. While ballet is highly structured, full of rules and standards, hip-hop gives Sara a chance to let go and follow the beat. Sara wants the best of both worlds but the conflict between structure and independence affects her performance in both genres.
The film is set soon after the original. Sara has made the first part of her dream come true. Her audition with the Juilliard School of Dance worked out well and she was accepted, resulting in her moving from Chicago to New York City. Sara would soon find out that as rough as it was to get there, staying would require raising the bar to almost painful heights. Her idol and ballet instructor, Monique Delacroix (Jacqueline Bisset), is old school when it comes to demanding each student master the traditional and arduous curriculum. She has little to no use for the influence of any other form of dance on ballet, so the concept of hip-hop is not only foreign to the staid teacher, it is repugnant.
During orientation on her first day at Juilliard, Sara meets Miles Sultana (Columbus Short), who takes her for a trombone player. When she tells him she is there for ballet, he questions whether she is a ballerina. Sara boldly states that she is already a ballerina; she is there to become a prima ballerina. This sets up a playful antagonism that later develops into a romantic relationship. Sara also has to deal with the students at her new school. In a high pressure school like Juilliard, the more favor you gather with the teachers the more jealousy you encounter from the students. It is a cut-throat environment with an extremely high failure rate.
Among her new classmates is Marcus (Matthew Watling), who infuriates Delacroix the first day for wearing pants that 'swish'. Then there is Katrina (Maria Brooks), who is destined to be the main rival for Sara. It also turns out that Miles is actually her guest lecturer for 'Introduction to Hip-Hop Theory'. Miles invites Sara and her new roommate Zoe to a club, where Sara demonstrates her skills by having a dance off with local dance star and club favorite Candy (Tracey "Tre" Armstrong). Due to her late night partying, she is late for her ballet class and is scolded and punished by Ms Delacroix.
Struggling to stay, Sara tries to save herself from being dismissed by working extremely hard, which makes her decline Miles's request for her to design choreography for an art exhibit he's involved with. In pain and desperation, Sara takes pills offered to her by Katrina to lose weight and relieve the pain in her joints. After vomiting in Delacroix's office and having the pills noted in the bucket, she is assured that she is not being cut and advised not to take them anymore. She continues to work hard and improves daily. She also agrees to help Miles with his project. During a chance meeting with Philiomena Kerplunk (Suze Williams) Philly convinces Sara that she will have the last dance and that she is still as hip as she was in the first movie.
Delacroix properly supports her after Sara demonstrates her talent, causing Katrina to become even more jealous. Katrina gets the lead in Giselle, but is injured during practice. Sara must now take her part, which is extremely technically demanding. Sara works relentlessly, struggling between her two commitments. Katrina, in a final act of revenge, reveals Sara's relationship with Miles to Delacroix. It is revealed that Delacroix is Miles's mother. She discusses Sara's future with Miles and encourages him to end their relationship so it doesn't interfere with her fulfilling her dreams.
Sara withdraws from her participation in the gallery project and focuses on the ballet performance. During rehearsal, she is confronted by Zoe and Miles's friend Franz (Ian Brennan) about refusing to assist with the gallery project even though Miles is struggling. Zoe angrily accuses Sara of becoming Delacroix. Sara is also informed that the dress rehearsal for the gallery project is on the night of her ballet performance and no one from that group will be able to see her as Giselle. Right before the ballet performance, Zoe comes and apologizes for her behavior and delivers a CD from Miles of him playing piano. She performs her role as Giselle flawlessly, but finds in the end that she feels nothing despite her tremendous success. She declines to attend the afterparty full of industry luminaries and tells Delacroix that she is not willing to sacrifice love, friendship, and happiness for ballet. She leaves and goes to the dress rehearsal, makes up with Miles, and performs the piece she choreographed, finally looking happy.
Izabella Miko as Sara Johnson
Columbus Short as Miles Sultana
Jacqueline Bisset as Monique Delacroix
Maria Brooks as Katrina
Aubrey Dollar as Zoe
Ian Brennan as Franz
Tracey "Tre" Armstrong as Candy
Seana McKenna as Simone Eldair
Christopher Null of Filmcritic.com was critical of the film, stating it "retreads the original Dance pretty much completely". He noted that Miko lacks the girl-next-door charm of Stiles, but suggested she does make for a more credible ballerina.
The film was released on DVD October 10, 2006. The DVD includes a making of feature.
Save the Last Dance 2
Save the Last Dance 2 at IMDb
Save the Last Dance 2 at Rotten Tomatoes
Sylvie Weil (born 1942) is a French professor and writer. She is known for her novels for children and her writing about her prominent intellectual family, which includes André Weil and Simone Weil.
Weil was born in the United States in 1942. Her family moved to Brazil when she was three and then to Chicago when she was five. Much of her education took place in Paris.
Weil is the daughter of mathematician André Weil and the niece of the philosopher Simone Weil. Weil never met her aunt, who died in England shortly after Sylvie was born in the US. It is said that the two women shared "an uncanny physical resemblance". Weil's memoir about her family, Chez les Weil: André et Simone, was translated into English as At Home with André and Simone Weil.
In 2002, Weil won the Prix Sorcières, a prize for French-language children's literature, for her novel Le Mazal d'Elvina. The English translation, My Guardian Angel, was named a Sydney Taylor Honor Book for Older Readers in 2004, and the sequel Elvina's Mirror was named a Sydney Taylor Notable Book for Older Readers in 2010. The Sydney Taylor awards recognize distinguished contributions to Jewish children's literature.
Year 1494 (MCDXCIV) was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Julian calendar.
January 4 – The Cetinje Octoechos (Цетињски октоих, an Eastern Orthodox octoechos (liturgy), first tone), the first incunabulum written in the Serbian recension of Church Slavonic, and the first book printed in Cyrillic in Southeast Europe, is completed in Cetinje.
January 25 – Alfonso II becomes King of Naples.
February 5 – The war between the Grand Duchy of Moscow and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania ends after almost seven years, with the Tsar Ivan III signing a "treaty of Eternal Peace" with Lithuania's Grand Duke Alexander Jagiellon. Lithuania is guaranteed its independence in return for ceding its territories captured by Moscow.
March 16 – Maximilian, King of the Romans, marries Bianca Maria Sforza, sister of the Duke of Milan after the annulment of his marriage to Anne, Duchess of Brittany.
March 24 – An earthquake estimated centuries later at 5.5 magnitude, strikes the Chinese city of Qujing, destroying 200 homes.
April 30 – On his second voyage to the New World, Columbus and his crew become the first Europeans to sail into what is now Guantanamo Bay in Cuba.
May 5 – Christopher Columbus first sights Jamaica.
May 7 – The infant Amda Seyon II succeeds his father Eskender as Emperor of Ethiopia.
May 31 – First Battle of Acentejo: Natives of the island of Tenerife, known as Guanches, defeat the invading Spanish forces.
May – Maximilian I, Holy Roman Emperor, recognises the pretender Perkin Warbeck as rightful King of England.
June 7 – Treaty of Tordesillas: Spain and Portugal divide the New World between themselves.
In a battle fought at the village of Igris (now part of western Romania) in territory claimed by Hungary and the Ottoman state of Wallachia, the Hungarian General Pál Kinizsi defeats Turkish armies led by the Ottoman governor Basarab II of Wallachia."Istorie". Primăria comunei Sânpetru Mare.
Spain ratifies the Treaty of Tordesillas to divide the lands discovered outside of Europe between Spain (the Kingdoms of Castile and Aragon) and Portugal, essentially granting Spain almost all of the lands in the Americas and Portugal all of the lands in Africa.
July 29 – Jan V Zatorski, ruler of the Duchy of Zator, sells the Duchy to King Jan I Olbracht of Poland for 80,000 florins, on condition that he retains his title and the right to continue to live in his castle for the rest of his life.
August 29 – King Charles VIII of France departs from Grenoble with 30,000 troops and 10,000 naval crew on his way toward Italy, in order to assert his claim to become King of Naples (a post occupied by King Alfonso II and to go to war.
September 5 – The Kingdom of Portugal ratifies its agreement with Spain, the Treaty of Tordesillas, conceding that Spain has jurisdiction of most of the New World, with the exception of what will eventually become the Portuguese colony of Brazil, initially a longitude of 42°30' W.
September 8 – The three day Battle of Rapallo, fought as part of the Italian War of 1494–1495 between the Kingdom of France and the Kingdom of Naples, is won by the French naval fleet, which then captures and loots Rapallo, near Genoa, after the Neapolitans flee.
September 11 – King Charles VIII of France and Ludovico Sforza, regent for the Duke of Milan, meet in Asti and conclude an alliance against King Alfonso II of Naples.
September 24 – The earliest hurricane to be specifically recorded by historians, strikes the island of Hispaniola near the Spanish colonial capital, La Isabela, the day after Christopher Columbus arrives at Saona, following five months of explorations.
October 13 – The British administrator assigned to Ireland, Sir Edward Poynings, arrives at Ireland with about 1,000 men and lands at Howth.
October 21 – France and Milan, with at least 14,000 troops, capture the town of Mordano, part of the Lordship of Imola, an ally of Naples. The French then begin killing at least 300 of the Mordano defenders and pillaging the town, while the Kingdom of Naples refuses to come to Mordano's defense.
October 22 – Ludovico Sforza becomes Duke of Milan upon the death of his nephew, the Duke Gian Galeazzo Sforza, and invites Charles VIII of France to invade Italy in support of his claim, beginning the First Italian War in the Italian Wars.
October 26 – Amda Seyon II is deposed and killed, and his uncle Na'od succeeds him as Emperor of Ethiopia.
November 8 – Facing little opposition in his march across Italy, King Charles VIII of France captures Pisa.
November 9 – The Medici Bank becomes insolvent and the House of Medici is expelled from Florence.
November 10 – Fra Luca Pacioli's Summa de arithmetica, geometria, proportioni et proportionalità is published in Venice, containing the first printed account of algebra in the vernacular, and the first published description of the double-entry accounting system.
November 17 – Italian War of 1494–98: The armies of King Charles VIII of France enter Florence. Charles is dissuaded from destroying the city by the Florentine leader, Girolamo Savonarola, who had recently taken control from the Medici family. After being persuaded that he has a divine role of reformation of the Roman Catholic Church, King Charles spares Florence from destruction and leaves the city on November 28, guiding his troops onward toward Rome.
December 1 – The Irish Parliament opens at Drogheda on the first Monday after Saint Andrew's Day as summoned by Sir Edward Poynings, to pass the two "Poynings' Laws" restricting Irish self-government. The more drastic of the two laws provides that laws already enacted in England apply to Ireland as well, while the other law directs that the Irish Parliament cannot be summoned without prior approval by the King of England.
December 25 – Second Battle of Acentejo: The Spanish crush the native forces of the island of Tenerife, leading to the subjugation of this last bastion of resistance in the Canary Islands.
December 31 – King Charles VIII of France and the French Army peacefully march into Rome after being granted free passage by Pope Alexander VI.
Aztec forces conquer and sack Mitla.
Johann Reuchlin publishes De verbo mirifico.
Charles VIII of France purchases the right to the Byzantine Empire from exiled pretender, Andreas Palaiologos.
February 2 – Bona Sforza, queen of Sigismund I of Poland (d. 1557)
February 11 – Takeda Nobutora, Japanese warlord (d. 1574)
February 20 – Johan Friis, Danish statesman (d. 1570)
March 24 – Georgius Agricola, German mineralogist and scholar (d. 1555)
March 25 – Elisabeth of Brandenburg-Ansbach-Kulmbach, Margravine (d. 1518)
April 4 – Ambrosius Moibanus, German theologian (d. 1554)
April 20 – Johannes Agricola, German Protestant reformer (d. 1566)
April 25 – Juan Téllez-Girón, 4th Count of Ureña, Spanish count (d. 1558)
May 24 – Pontormo, Italian painter (d. 1557)
August 18 – Johannes Scheubel, German mathematician (d. 1570)
September 8 – Sri Chand, Indian founder of the ascetic sect of Udasi (d. 1629)
September 11 – Elisabeth of Brunswick-Lüneburg, Duchess of Guelders (1518–1538) (d. 1572)
September 12 – King Francis I of France (d. 1547)
October 31 – Wolfgang of the Palatinate, Count Palatine of Neumarkt (1524–1558), governor of the Upper Palatinate (d. 1558)
November 5 – Hans Sachs, German meistersinger ("mastersinger") (d. 1576)
November 6 – Suleiman the Magnificent, Ottoman Sultan (d. 1566)
November 12 – Margaret of Anhalt-Köthen, Princess of Anhalt by birth, Duchess consort of Saxony (d. 1521)
November (probable) – François Rabelais, French Renaissance writer (d. 1553)
Alonso Álvarez de Pineda, Spanish explorer and cartographer (d. 1519)
Christina Gyllenstierna, Swedish national heroine (d. 1559)
Ambrosius Holbein, German painter (d. 1519)
Qiu Ying, Chinese painter (d. 1552)
Saitō Dōsan, Japanese warlord (d. 1556)
John Sutton, 3rd Baron Dudley, English soldier (d. 1554)
Hans Tausen, Danish religious reformer (d. 1561)
William Tyndale, English-born religious reformer and Bible translator (executed 1536)
January 11 – Domenico Ghirlandaio, Italian artist (b. 1449)
January 20 – Seongjong of Joseon, King of Joseon (b. 1457)
January 25 – King Ferdinand I of Naples (b. 1423)
May 7 – Eskender, Emperor of Ethiopia (b. 1471)
August 1 – Giovanni Santi, Italian artist and father of Raphael (b. c. 1435)
August 11 – Hans Memling, Flemish painter (b. c. 1430)
September 24 – Poliziano, Italian humanist (b. 1454)
October 21 – Gian Galeazzo Sforza, Duke of Milan (b. 1469)
October 26 – Amda Seyon II, Emperor of Ethiopia (b. c. 1487)
November 8 – Melozzo da Forlì, Italian painter (b. c. 1438)
November 15 – William Calthorpe, English knight (b. 1410)
November 16 – Theda Ukena, countess regent of East Frisia (b. 1432)
November 17 – Giovanni Pico della Mirandola, Italian humanist (b. 1463)
December 19 or December 20 – Matteo Maria Boiardo, Italian poet (b. c. 1434-1441)
John Phillipson (28 April 1698 – 27 November 1756) was a British Navy administrator and commissioner who also sat for over 20 years as a Member of Parliament.
He was born in Harwich, Essex, the son of John Phillipson, agent for the packet boats. Like his father he began his career as a clerk in the Navy Office in parallel with outside business interests. In 1733 he was elected a Director of the South Sea Company following a shareholder revolt against the former board. He later (in 1756) acted as Deputy Governor for a year.
In 1834 he stood as a Parliamentary candidate for New Shoreham and was returned with a good majority. After voting with the Government on a contentious issue in 1739 he was appointed a Navy commissioner. In 1741 he was re-elected to represent Harwich and was appointed an Admiralty Lord by the incoming government in 1743. In 1744 he was dismissed from the post and compensated with the title of Surveyor-general of woods and forests north and south of Trent, which he held from 1745 to his death.
He died in 1756. He had married in 1717 the daughter of naval commissioner Richard Burton, and had a daughter to whom he left his fortune.
The Moroccan Royal Gymnastics Federation aims to develop, promote and supervise gymnastics in Morocco. Abdessadek Bitari is the president'.
Harshana Thilakarathne (born 2003) is a Sri Lankan chess player and International Master. Currently, he is the no 2 chess player in Sri Lanka and completed his education at the Maliyadeva College, Kurunegala. He is trained by Dmytro Komarow. He started training in the game under the coaching of former veteran national chess player Romesh Weerawardane.
Harshana claimed a bronze medal in the Under 7 age category at the 2009 Asian Schools Chess Championship which was held in Sri Lanka. He also claimed gold medal in Under 11 age category at the 2014 World Schools Chess Championship which was held in Brazil. He was awarded the Candidate Master title in 2015. He claimed silver medal in Under 13 category at the 2016 World Schools Chess Championship which was held in Sochi, Russia. He also won silver medal in Under 15 category at the 2018 World Schools Chess Championship which was held in Albania. He also won gold medal in Under 16 open category at the 2018 Commonwealth Chess Championship which was held in New Delhi. In the same year, he was awarded the FIDE master title. He also competed at the 43rd Chess Olympiad which was held in Georgia in 2018 where he scored 6 points from 10 matches.
He won his first national chess championship title at the age of 16 in 2019. He also secured silver medal in the Under 18 open event at the 2019 West Asian Youth Chess Championship which was held in New Delhi. He captained the 12 member Sri Lankan contingent in the FIDE Online Chess Olympiad 2020. He was also selected to play in the Online Intercontinental Youth Chess Cup 2020 representing the Asuan Youth Chess team. He also captained the Sri Lankan boys team at the 2020 Asian Boys and Girls Online Chess Championship in their Zonal 3.2 category where boys team secured third position and it was also the inaugural online edition of the Asian Boys and Girls tournament.
In October 2020, he was awarded the prestigious International Master title by the World Chess Federation and became the second Sri Lankan to be awarded the international master title after Romesh Weerawardane. He received the title after securing three norms with the required rating of 2400.
In September 2021, he won the Under 18 category of the 2021 Western Asian Online Youth Chess Championships and his victory also guaranteed his eligibility to compete in the FIDE World Youth and Cadet Chess Grand Prix 2021.
List of Maliyadeva College alumni
Harshana Thilakarathne rating card at FIDE
The 1980 European Wrestling Championships was held from 20 to 27 April 1980 in Prievidza, Czechoslovakia.
Fila's official championship website Archived 2021-08-12 at the Wayback Machine
Dutch Fork is a 11.23 mi (18.07 km) long 3rd order tributary to Buffalo Creek in Washington County, Pennsylvania.
According to the Geographic Names Information System, it has also been known historically as:
Dutch Fork of Buffalo Creek
Dutch Fork rises about 0.25 miles east of Claysville, Pennsylvania, in Washington County and then flows west and north to join Buffalo Creek about 0.5 miles southeast of Dunsfort.
Dutch Fork drains 23.59 square miles (61.1 km2) of area, receives about 40.5 in/year of precipitation, has a wetness index of 306.89, and is about 62% forested.
List of Pennsylvania Rivers
The Prevost baronetcy, of Belmont near Southampton in Hampshire, is a title in the Baronetage of the United Kingdom. It was created on 6 December 1805 for the soldier and colonial administrator Lieutenant-General George Prevost. He was Governor General of British North America from 1812 to 1815. After his death in 1816 his widow Lady Prevost declined the offer of a peerage, as she did not consider herself and her family to have sufficient means to support the dignity. Prevost was the son of General Augustine Prevost, himself a distinguished soldier, who had emigrated to England from Geneva, Switzerland.
Sir George Prevost, 1st Baronet (1767–1816)
Sir George Prevost, 2nd Baronet (1804–1893)
Lieutenant-Colonel Sir Charles Prevost, 3rd Baronet (1831–1902). The second son of the 2nd Baronet, he entered the 31st Regiment of Foot in 1850, and took part in the Crimean War where he was wounded at the Siege of Sevastopol, for which he received medals. He later commanded the 2nd Battalion West India Regiment. He married, in 1856, Sarah Keble, daughter of Rev. T. Keble, vicar of Dursley.
Sir Charles Thomas Keble Prevost, 4th Baronet (1866–1939)
Sir George James Augustine Prevost, 5th Baronet (1910–1985)
Sir Christopher Gerald Prevost, 6th Baronet (born 1935)
The heir apparent to the baronetcy is Nicholas Marc Prevost (born 1971), eldest son of the 6th Baronet.
In ancient Roman law, commercium or ius commercii was a privilege granted to a non-citizen (peregrinus) or a holder of Latin rights to acquire property, make contracts, and trade in the same ways as a Roman citizen. The jurist Ulpian explained commercium as "the right of buying and selling reciprocally" (commercium est emendi vendendique invicem ius).
The exclusive right to own certain forms of property and to convey ownership of that property (mancipatio) was one of the defining aspects of early Roman citizenship. But as early as 493 BC, a right of commerce was recognized with the twenty-nine members of the Latin League, neighboring communities in Latium. A grant of commercium allowed Latins and certain peregrini to trade in res mancipi, forms of property privileged in the rural economy of early Rome that included agricultural slaves, certain farmland within the Italian peninsula, and farm animals. No special grant of commercial rights was needed for regular trade (traditio) that did not involve res mancipi.
res extra commercium, things excluded from trade and ownership
Thomas Montgomery Adair (June 15, 1913 – May 24, 1988) was an American songwriter, composer, and screenwriter.
Adair was born on 15 June 1913, in Newton, Kansas, where his father owned a clothing store; he was the only child of William Adair and Madge Cochran.
Around 1923, the family moved to Los Angeles, where Tom Adair attended Los Angeles Junior College. In his early career he worked as a complaints clerk at the local power company, while writing poetry and song lyrics in his spare time.
In 1941, Adair met Matt Dennis in a club and the duo began writing songs together. Adair's songwriting career took him to New York during the 1940s where he penned several Broadway hits, and worked with Tommy Dorsey and Frank Sinatra. He later returned to Los Angeles and worked with writer James B. Allardice on scripts for sitcoms.
In 1949, Adair married Frances Adelle Jeffords; in later life, they worked together on songs and teleplays for Disney. They had four children.
After meeting Matt Dennis in 1940, Adair started working with him, moving to New York when the duo were hired by Tommy Dorsey. Adair and Dennis wrote numerous songs for Dorsey, Bing Crosby, and Dinah Shore, and penned Frank Sinatra's hit "Let's Get Away from It All." In 1942, Matt Dennis joined the Army Air Corps. Adair moved on to work with Dick Uhl and hit song "In the Blue of the Evening" with Alfonso d'Artega. About the collaboration among Adair, Dennis, and Sinatra, Vanity Fair magazine said "Sinatra's first recording away from Dorsey took place at RCA’s Los Angeles studios on the afternoon of Monday, January 19, 1942. He had chosen the song for his attempt as a soloist, a ballad, naturally, all dripping with romance: it was 'The Night We Called It a Day', by these new kids Matt Dennis and Tom Adair, who’d written 'Let’s Get Away from It All' and 'Violets for Your Furs.' "
From June 1944, Adair worked with composer Gordon Jenkins in writing a complete score every week for the Auto-Lite radio show, which featured singer Dick Haymes.
He wrote many hit songs, including "Let's Get Away From It All", "Everything Happens to Me", "In the Blue of the Evening", "Will You Still Be Mine?", "Violets for Your Furs", "The Night We Called It a Day", "The Skyscraper Blues", "A Home-Sweet-Home in the Army", "How Will I Know My Love?", "Sing a Smiling Song", "Paul Bunyan", "There's No You", and "Weep No More".
In 1949, Adair wrote the lyrics for the Broadway production of Along Fifth Avenue. It ran for 180 performances at the Broadhurst Theatre, with the original cast including Carol Bruce, Jackie Gleason, George S. Irving, Hank Ladd, Donald Richards and Nancy Walker.
After the show closed, Adair returned to Los Angeles, working for Disney in the 1950s. Penning songs and skits for both the 1950s and 1970s Mickey Mouse Club. As well as helped shaped the Disneyland amusement park brand with his contributions to The Country Bear Jamboree, Miss Teddi Beara, and The Golden Horseshoe Review.
In 1958, Adair first met James B. Allardice while working on The Ann Sothern Show (1958); he wrote the music while Allardice was a writer on the show. Adair went on to have a successful partnership working on the sitcom, Hazel (1961); however, they also collaborated in the writing on two episodes of Hazel: "A Replacement for Phoebe" (which aired on 1961-10-02) and "Harold's Good Fortune" (which aired on 1961-11-30). Later the two collaborated on many other shows, including My Three Sons, F Troop, Hogan's Heroes, I Dream of Jeannie, and Gomer Pyle – USMC. The partnership lasted until Allardice's death in 1966.
A late triumph was the lyrics for an NBC cartoon special, "Babar Comes to America" (1971) with John Scott Trotter.
The Ides of March. George Clooney, Ryan Gosling (2011)
Melinda and Melinda. Jonny Lee Miller (2004)
Keeping the Faith. Eli Wallach (2000)
The End of the Affair. Ralph Fiennes (1999)
Playing by Heart. Sean Connery (1998)
Julie. Doris Day (1956)
We Were the Mulvaneys (2002)
The Adairs retired to Honolulu, Hawaii, in 1984. On 24 May 1988, Tom died at the age of 74.
Tom Adair at IMDb
Tom Adair at the Internet Broadway Database
Tom Adair discography at Discogs
Adiantum edgeworthii is a species of maidenhair fern.
"Adiantum edgeworthii". Flora of Taiwan Checklist – via eFloras.org, Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis, MO & Harvard University Herbaria, Cambridge, MA.
Gordon Toll (born 1947) is a career mining industry professional and company director, with long term interests in iron ore mining and magnetite project development. In 2020 he was appointed non-executive director of Free Eyre Ltd and its subsidiary Peninsula Ports Pty Ltd, with the expectation of the company realising the Port Spencer project in South Australia ahead of the summer of 2020–21.
Toll joined BHP after graduating from the University of Queensland with a degree in Mining Engineering in 1968. There he helped the company establish its iron ore projects through to the mid 1970s before moving to its chief competitor, Rio Tinto. In the late 1980s to early 1990s, he was Vice President of Technology at US Borax, a subsidiary of Rio Tinto headquartered in California. He received a Master’s degree in Business Science in 1981 from Columbia University, New York, before going on to work around the world raising funds and developing mining projects in Mongolia, Brazil, Venezuela and Indonesia.
In the late 1990s, Toll was involved in the reconstruction of Savage River magnetite and pellet operations in Tasmania. Since that time Toll has acted as director and or chairman for various mining and mineral exploration companies. He was founding chairman of Fortescue (2005–2007) and chairman of Braemar Infrastructure, which seeks to develop iron ore projects in South Australia's north-east.
In 2011, Toll was an Independent non-executive director at vertically integrated steelmaker Evraz, where he was also Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee. At the time he was also Executive Chairman of Satimola Limited, a potash development company operating in Kazakhstan.
In 2012, Toll was described as the founder and former chairman of Ferrous Resources, a Brazilian iron ore mining company and the deputy chairman of Ivanhoe Mines.
In 2014 he was a major shareholder in Royal Resources, owning 22.51% of the company. From 2014 to 2018, he was chairman of Magnetite Mines, when it was seeking to develop the Razorback prospect between Burra and Broken Hill. At the time he was soliciting Chinese engineering companies and rich individuals to invest, while approaching steel mills and commodities traders that might also buy some of the mine's product.
By 2017 Gordon Toll claimed to have raised over $5 billion in investment for projects he had associated with. Toll has also previously worked as an executive with Atlantic Richfield and Texas Gulf. Toll intends to partner with Chinese investors to enable new iron ore mines in South Australia and develop innovative solutions for the export of bulk minerals. Toll's privately owned companies include Braemar Infrastructure and Lodestone Equities. Lodestone Equities is a vehicle by which Toll buys into iron ore mining projects.
Oakmont Resources is a start-up iron ore mining company founded in 2009 by series one Australian Masterchef contestant, Aaron Thomas. By 2014 the company had commenced mining and had mined 250,000 tonnes of iron ore in Brazil. Gordon Toll and Guy Saxton sued fellow company director Aaron Thomas for spending millions of dollars on luxury expenses that he claimed were entitlements. Aaron responded by stating that "The legal action in the UK and US is blatant thuggery instigated by questionable individuals with colourful track records" and alleged that Toll and Saxton acted “to enrich themselves, without paying what they owe to the Company”. The company directors then became the target of an unfair dismissal counterclaim by Thomas. Thomas described Toll and Saxton's actions as a "dirty tricks" campaign to increase their shareholding by ousting him from the company that he founded.
Toll appears in the ICIJ's Offshore Leaks Database as a signatory for or the ultimate beneficial owner of numerous companies located in the Isle of Man, a known tax haven. The database links two addresses to his name at the time (2009–2011), one in London and one in Monte Carlo, another known tax haven.
Sybra baculina is a species of beetle in the family Cerambycidae. It was described by Henry Walter Bates in 1866. It contains seven subspecies:
S. baculina baculina
S. baculina mimogeminata
S. baculina miyakoana
S. baculina musashinoi
S. baculina nipponensis
S. baculina omoro
S. baculina oshimana
Bentsen is a Danish surname, and it means 'son of Bendt' which is a Danish nickname for Benedict. Notable people with the surname include:
Beint Bentsen (1917–2003), Norwegian banker and politician for the Christian Democratic Party
Christen Bentsen Schaaning (1616–1679), priest at Avaldsnes in Norway from 1635 to 1679
Erling Bentsen (1897–1962), Norwegian newspaper editor and politician for the Labour and Communist parties
Ivar Bentsen (1876–1943), Danish architect
Lloyd Bentsen (1921–2006), four-term United States senator (1971–1993) from Texas and 1988 vice presidential nominee
William Bentsen (1930–2020), American sailor and Olympic champion
Benteng (disambiguation)
Nilüfer Hatun Imareti (Turkish for "Nilüfer Hatun's Soup Kitchen"), a convent annex hospice for dervishes, now housing the Iznik Museum in İznik, Bursa Province, Turkey. This elegant building was erected in 1388 for Murad I who dedicated it to his late mother Nilüfer Hatun.
During Murad's reign Nilüfer s recognized as Valide Hatun, the first in Ottoman history to hold this title, and when she died she was buried beside her consort Orhan Gazi in Bursa.
The Imaret is built in single courses of stone alternating with four courses of bricks, its vaults and domes covered with ceramic tiles. The building is preceded by an open ended porch of five bays, with five arches in front and two on either side, carried by a succession of alternating piers and columns. The central bay is surmounted by a small dome, while the four side bays are covered with flat topped cross vaults. Inside, the main hall is a square surmounted by a lofty dome carried on the belt of Turkish triangles. On either side there are two large rooms with much lover domes; these have large ocaklar, or hearths, and were used as both kitchens and dormitories. In front of the main hall is another hall of similar size divided into two sections by a great arch; this served as a mescit, as evidenced by the mihrab niche in the south wall.
The building originally served as a hostel for the Ahi Brotherhood of Virtue. This was a religious and fraternal society formed by the craft guilds in Anatolia during the Seljuk period. Ibn Battuta also wrote about the hospitality her received at one of the Ahi lodges in Anatolia.
Nilüfer's foundations was later used as an imaret, or refectory, serving free food to the poor of Iznik. The building was abandoned for many years but was restored in 1955. Today it houses the Iznik Museum, with archaeological and ethnological collections, including an exhibition of the famous Iznik kilns.
Ottoman Architecture
Hani Rashid (born 1958 in Cairo) is an architect and educator. He co-founded the New York-based architecture firm, Asymptote Architecture with Lise Anne Couture.
Hani Rashid was born in Cairo, Egypt in 1958, his family immigrated to Ontario, Canada when he was young. His brother is industrial designer, Karim Rashid.
In 1983, Hani Rashid received his bachelor's degree in Architecture from Carleton University in Canada. It was at Carleton University he met his wife and future business partner, Lise Anne Couture. In 1985, he received a master of architecture degree from the Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan.
Rashid co-founded the New York-based architecture firm, Asymptote Architecture with his wife, Lise Anne Couture in 1989. Asymptote Architecture is known for fusing architecture with computer technology to make a hybrid style.
Significant projects include 166 Perry Street, a luxury residential building in Manhattan's West Village, the Yas Hotel Abu Dhabi a luxury hotel and one of the main architectural features of the new Yas Marina development and accompanying Formula 1 raceway circuit in Abu Dhabi, and the HydraPier Pavilion in Haarlemmermeer, Netherlands.
Portfolio also includes some high-profile interior work such as the New York Stock Exchange Advanced Trading Floor, the American flagship stores for Carlos Miele and Alessi and the Carlos Miele Store in Paris.
Other projects include the winning entry for the World Business Center Solomon Tower in Busan, South Korea in 2007, a large-scale cultural, hotel and performing arts complex in Penang, Malaysia and the Strata Tower in Abu Dhabi.
Rashid's academic career includes visiting professorships at several universities, including the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen, the Southern California Institute of Architecture (SCI-Arc) in Los Angeles, the Harvard University Graduate School of Design, the Berlage Institute in Amsterdam, the University of Michigan (Ann Arbor) and the Lund University.
Since 1989, Rashid has been an Associate Professor of Architecture at the Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation at Columbia University in New York, where he launched the "Advanced Digital Design" (1992) and the "Digital Design Initiative" (1995). In 2004, he received a professorship at the Cátedra Luis Barragán in Monterrey, Mexico, and from 2006 to 2009 he was a professor at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich.
In 2008, Rashid was the recipient of the Kenzo Tange Visiting Professor Chair at the Harvard University Graduate School of Design. He was also a member of the jury for the Aga Khan Award for Architecture. From 2009 to 2011 he was a guest professor at the School of Architecture at Princeton University.
Since October 2011 Rashid has been a professor at the University of Applied Arts Vienna.
In 2000, Rashid represented the U.S. at the Seventh International Architecture Biennale in Venice, Italy. In 2004, Asymptote Architecture was selected as the design architects of Metamorph, the Ninth Venice Architecture Biennale. Also in 2004, Hani Rashid together with his partner Lise Anne Couture was awarded the Austrian Frederick Kiesler Prize for Architecture and the Arts.
Firm's profile on Asymptote's website
Prijepolje (Serbian Cyrillic: Пријепоље, pronounced [prijěːpoʎe]) is a town and municipality located in the Zlatibor District of southwestern Serbia. As of 2022, the town has 11,928 inhabitants, while the municipality has 32,214 inhabitants.
One possible meaning of the name Prijepolje is "Prija's field", where Prija is the owner of polje, the "field" in English. However, a more likely theory is that the name originates from the location of Prijepolje and its relationship to the travels of caravans. When those caravans were passing through the area which would become Prijepolje, they would arrive at the settlement "before the fields", where the present day neighborhoods of Ivanje and Velika Župa are located. "Prije" means "before", and "polje" means "field", hence, the location might be called Prijepolje.
Prijepolje is located at the confluence of the fast-flowing Lim and Mileševka rivers. It is also situated along the road from Belgrade to the Adriatic Sea, as well as being a stop on the Belgrade – Bar railway. The Belgrade – Adriatic road intersects here with the regional road between Pljevlja, Prijepolje and Sjenica. This regional road follows roughly the same route as the ancient Roman road known as the Dubrovnik road. Just north of Prijepolje, at Bistrica, there is a road leading towards Priboj, Višegrad and Sarajevo. Prijepolje is surrounded by hills, such as Pušina, Srijeteži, Gradina and Sokolica, which, prior to the construction of the "Potpeć" hydro plant near Nova Varoš, created a unique climate around the municipality. Since the hydro plant's construction, Prijepolje's climate has been changed into one that is typical for this cold part of Serbia. The highest peak in the Prijepolje area is Katunić, which reaches 1,734 meters above sea level.
Forests surround most of Prijepolje, however, along the Lim, there are numerous beaches. Two of the most popular beaches are under bridges, one at the centre of the town, under the bridge in Ivanje, and another under the bridge in Petrovac.
Prijepolje has a humid continental climate (Köppen climate classification: Dfb), that's very close to an oceanic climate (Köppen climate classification: Cfb).
Prijepolje was established as a settlement in 1234, the same year the Mileševa Monastery was built. Prior to its establishment as a settlement, the area was occupied as far back as the Stone Age. First settled by Illyrians, who migrated to the area after being forced out of the northern plains, they retreated to the more defensible and less accessible mountainous regions. Later arrivals were the Celts, with whom the Illyrians intermarried. With the arrival by the Romans, the Illyrians were again forced to flee, and after the Romans, the Slavs settled in the area, intermixing with some of the earlier Illyrians. The Goths, Huns, Gepids, Langobards and Avars also passed through this area. The most interesting archaeological site in the territory is the Roman necropolis near the modern settlement of Kolovrat where pieces of ancient glass, silver, ceramics, and gold have been unearthed.
Prijepolje was mentioned for the first time by Gijom Adam in 1332 while it was part of Dubrovnik's sphere of influence. According to historical sources, Prijepolje developed as a road settlement for caravans along the route known as "Dubrovnik's road", a road connecting the central and eastern Balkans with the middle Adriatic coast. The caravan route traversed both mountainous and heavily forested areas, which could prove dangerous to travelers. Local villagers were tasked with protecting local roads, due to the statute which said, "If, on the road, someone has been killed or has had a bullet stuck into his body, let the local guardians gather together to pay the damage. Hitting by one small drum, the passers by would know that there was no danger".
By 1477, part of the Albanian Mataruge tribe lived in the kaza of Prijepolje, where they formed their own distinct community (nahiye) with 10 villages (katund).
There was a cartographic reference to Prijepolje in "Regno della Servia detta altrimentri Rascia" by Giacomo Cantelli da Vignola, cartographer to the Duke of Modena, in 1689.
During the Ottoman period, there were quite a few buildings constructed in Prijepolje. Most famous of these are Ibrahim Pasha's mosque and the Sahat Kula. Pasha's mosque is located in Šarampov, one of three regions in town (the other two being Vakuf and the Town Center), and was most likely built in the 16th century. It is adorned with a single minaret, and covered by a "cheramida" (a special covering of the houses in that time). The region has a very tumultuous past. It was part of First Serbian revolt in 1875, known as Banine's revolt, as well as seeing the Javorian War in 1876, the Raonić Revolt, the Balkan Wars in 1912 and 1913, and both World Wars. In 1912, during the First Balkan War, control of Prijepolje passed from the Ottoman Empire to the Kingdom of Montenegro.
During World War II, Prijepolje officially became part of the Kingdom of Montenegro, a pro-Axis puppet state. Prijepolje was liberated on 4 December 1943, which is now celebrated as the Day of the Liberation of Prijepolje.
The municipality of Prijepolje covers an area of 824 km2 (318 sq mi) with an altitude ranging from 440–1,735 metres (1,444–5,692 ft). Not including the town of Prijepolje itself, it contains 96 other settlements. Those settlements are as follows, with population figures according to the 2002 census:
According to the 2022 census, the municipality of Prijepolje has 32,214 inhabitants, and 63% of the municipality's population is rural.
Prijepolje is an ethnically mixed town and municipality.
The ethnic structure of population of town of Prijepolje (according to the 2022 census):
The ethnic structure of population of Prijepolje municipality (according to the 2022 census):
Based on the 2022 census, in the municipality of Prijepolje, Muslims surpassed the Orthodox Christians, becoming a relative plurality of 46.8% of the population.
The following table gives a preview of total number of registered people employed in legal entities per their core activity (as of 2018):
Prijepolje has many historical monuments from both the periods of Christianity and Islam. The Mileševa monastery is located 6 km to the east of Prijepolje on the Mileševka River. The monastery is famous for The White Angel fresco, a famous and widely used religious icon in Serbia as well as being the former resting place of St. Sava, Serbia's most honored patriarch.
A famous monument from the Turkish period, the Sahat-Kula, is in town, as well as several mosques, one of which is in Hisardžik, interesting because of a four-hundred-year-old wooden Quran which was recently unearthed. Jusovića's kula tower, built in the 18th century as a protective house tower for the wealthy. Currently in ruins, there are plans being made to reconstruct this building, adding another unique monument to Prijepolje.
The Museum of Prijepolje is a very significant part of the cultural life of Prijepolje. It serves as a gathering place for artists from diverse locations to visit Prijepolje, and corroborate on large projects to improve the town's culture. In addition to the museum, there is also another major cultural building in Prijepolje, where amateurs, led by Meša Šendelj, are very active in refreshing the cultural life in Prijepolje.
Sveti Bor, known as the "Holy Pine," is a 5 centuries-old tree that has played a significant role in the village of Kamena Gora a nearby village. During the Ottoman occupation, the villagers were unable to construct a church, and this ancient pine served as a substitute, becoming a spiritual gathering point. Over time, Sveti Bor has not only become a symbol of the region but also a notable tourist destination. Its cultural importance and remarkable beauty, attributed to its great age, continue to attract visitors from all over the country.
There are 2 kindergartens and one elementary school in town. Prijepolje also has a Gymnasium, a technical high school, an economics high school, and a higher technical school.
In Prijepolje there are many forms of recreation. There is the local football club "FK Polimlje", as well as "FK Jasen" from nearby Brodarevo (also in the municipality of Prijepolje). There are volleyball clubs like "FAP-Livnica" and "Putevi", a handball club "White angel", and a chess club "Priko". Many parks and playfields are in and around town. Traditionally every year during MOSI (an annual regional sporting event), both the male and female volleyball teams representing Prijepolje see great success. Ilija Andrejic, an alpinist from Prijepolje, together with the Serbian alpinist team, successfully climbed Mount Everest.
On 14 of July, Prijepolje was the host of the European coupe in rafting on the Lim River.
On 22 of September 2007, Vlade Divac, came to Prijepolje, with a group of NBA basketball players, and opened the newly built museum building.
Besides basketball player Vlade Divac and numerous volleyball man and woman players, other notable sportspeople from Prijepolje are footballers Spaso Perić, Muhamed Preljević, Latif Čičić, Mirsad Kahrović, Ljubomir Brašnjević, Husein Mekić, Mihajlo Pjanović, Ivica Dragutinović, while Dragoslav Divac, Siniša Nestorović, Stevo Ljujić and Vule Maksimović archived notability in athletics.
There is one weekly newspaper published in Prijepolje, Polimlje, and three radio stations. There is also one media civic station working from 2008 called Television Forum, operated by NGO Women forum of Prijepolje. There are two wireless internet operators, one TV cable operator, and two private TV and radio stations. Prijepolje got digital telephonic central since May 2003.
"Sopotnički izvori", is held near the famous Sopotnica's waterfalls, where you can hear old national songs.
A famous diving demonstration is held at Petrovac, consisting of highly ranked divers from the Balkan region.
There is a famous art colony called Mileševa, consisting of many artists from this municipality.
"Gifts from Lim", is a sports and entertainment event where you can see diverse activities such as beach volleyball, a fish-soup making contest, and Prijepolje's Best son-in-law contest.
"July Fires" is a unique annual football tournament held at the highest mountain in the Zlatibor District, Jadovnik.It brings together people and players from Bosnia, Montenegro, and Serbia. The tournament is held on the first sunday after St. Peter's day every year.
There are 29 registered non-governmental organisations in Prijepolje, the most active ones being Jump, Helium, New Vision, Scout's "Boško Buha", Friends of Brodarevo, Friends of Sopotnica and Friends of Kamena Gora. Prijepolje has the first civic television program in Serbia run by a women's organization, the Woman Forum.
Prijepolje opened a Youth Club, under the auspices of National Strategy for Youth, and the Youth office of municipality Prijepolje was created in April 2008. The Youth Office's priority is to care for the rights and wills of the youth of the area, through constant youth work using the goals of local and national development organizations.
The coat of arms of Prijepolje depicts the mountain Zlatar (zlat from the word zlato which means gold in Serbian), the golden "pyramid of Zlatar", the sign of Saint Sava and two crowns which symbolize the two coronations which took place in Prijepolje. The more famous coronation was that of the King of Bosnia and the Serbs, Tvrtko I. Also on the coat of arms are two white angels from a fresco located in the monastery of Mileševa. The angels are holding the flags of Serbia, and Prijepolje. The curved line represents the Lim River.
Valter Perić, World War II Partisan
Sreten Vukosavljević, minister in 1944. first Yugoslav government, sociologist, journalist, political active for decentralization of Sanjak region as unified region
Savatije Sokolović, Serbian Patriarch
Svetomir Borisavljevic, member of parliament of Yugoslavia before World War II, lawyer
Vlade Divac, former NBA player, two-time Olympic silver medalist, World and European champion
Nemanja Petrić, volleyball player, European champion
Dženan Lončarević, pop singer
Aco Pejović, pop-folk singer
Zvonimir Červenko, Croatian General
Sefer Halilović, Bosnian Army general and politician
Latif Čičić, footballer
Ivica Dragutinović, footballer
Mihajlo Pjanović, footballer
Muhamed Preljević, footballer
Armin Sinančević, Serbian shot putter
Zećira Mušović, Swedish Goalkeeper
Filip Zekavičić, basketball player
Prijepolje is twinned with:
Bosniaks in Serbia
Zlatibor District
List of places in Serbia
Official website
The siege of Padua was a major engagement early in the War of the League of Cambrai.
Imperial forces had captured the Venetian city of Padua in June 1509. On 17 July, Venetian forces commanded by Andrea Gritti marched quickly from Treviso with a contingent of stradioti and retook the city, which had been garrisoned by some landsknechts hired by Emperor Maximilian I. In response, the emperor raised an army, composed mainly of mercenaries, and decided to invade the Veneto in an attempt to reclaim it.
In early August 1509, Maximilian set out from Trento with some 50,000 men and headed south into Venetian territory; there he was joined by French and German contingents. Due to a lack of horses, and generally poor organization, the army did not reach Padua until mid-September, which allowed the Venetian commander Niccolò di Pitigliano to concentrate what remained of Venice's army after Agnadello, as well as several companies of volunteers from Venice, in the city. This brought the defenders up to 14,000 infantry, 600 cavalry, and 700 stradiotti.
The siege began on 15 September. For two weeks, Imperial and French artillery bombarded the city, successfully breaching the walls; but the attacking troops were driven back by determined Venetian resistance when they attempted to enter. An assault by 7,500 Landsknechts in the Codalunga sector of the walls (the one that was most bombarded during the siege) was repulsed by mercenary commander Citolo da Perugia, whose mines killed 300 attackers and injured 400 others. By 30 September, Maximilian, unable to pay his mercenaries, lifted the siege; leaving a small detachment in Italy under Rudolph IV, Prince of Anhalt-Dessau, he withdrew to Tyrol with the main part of his army.
The defeat was a major loss of face for Maximilian, and the Holy Roman Empire would not attempt another invasion of Italy until 1516.
Hill, George (2010). A History of Cyprus. Vol. 3. Cambridge University Press.
Shaw, Christine (2006). Italy and the European Powers: The Impact of War, 1500-1530. Brill. ISBN 978 90 04 15163 5.
The Alabama Chapter of the Communist Party USA (CPUSA) was one of the most influential political bodies organizing poor African-Americans in the South during and after the Great Depression. Started with just two members, the Alabama chapter CPUSA was established in Birmingham Alabama in 1928, and remained active until it was forced underground by Ku Klux Klan (KKK) and police repression, and was disbanded when it was outlawed in 1951. During the height of Jim Crow and the Great Depression, the Alabama CPUSA organized some of the poorest African-American communities in the country, and was successful in leading organization drives in multiple industries including the Sharecroppers' Union, mine, mill, and industrial workers, as well as leading numerous campaigns to organize unemployed workers. The Alabama CPUSA also played a vital role in organizing African-Americans during a period where many activists would later become leaders of the emerging Civil Rights Movement. Ashbury Howard, who later was a significant leader in Alabama during the Civil Rights Movement, and Rosa Parks, who would later commit an act of civil disobedience launching the Montgomery Bus Boycott, were both trained and active with the Alabama CPUSA.
Cheap labor, made capital investments in Alabama extremely profitable in the early 20th century. Despite mineral deposits being buried deep, insufficient water supply, and low metallic content, cheap labor made the Birmingham Industrial Complex a region known as the "Pittsburgh of the South." Labor costs were so cheap, by 1910, the market made Birmingham Alabama one of the least costly industrial centers in the country for investors. As a result, by 1910, just 1 percent of individuals in the region had a net worth of over $35,000, while 80 percent earned under $500 per annum.
Consequently, interlocking directorships made it possible for a small minority of wealthy aristocrats to take control of local politics, dominate elected officials, and control the economy of the region. Further, control over the real estate, banking, and mining industries became centralized bringing large fortunes into the hands of less than 1 percent of the population. Industrialists spent their vast wealth lavishly while developing a strong class consciousness. One capitalist even went so far as to build his home as a replica of an ancient Roman temple.
Simultaneously, in what was known as the "valley of furnaces," the working poor struggled to survive. By 1900, African Americans made up 55 percent of Alabama’s coal miners, and 65 percent of its iron and steel workers. In total, African Americans made over 90 percent of Birmingham’s unskilled labor Force by 1910, and by 1920, Black women made up 60 percent of female workers, 87 percent of which were engaged in domestic work.
This development made Birmingham one of the largest Black urban centers in the New South, and as such, Segregation and disfranchisement ordinances were rampant. Between By 1901, African Americans disfranchisement reduced the Black voting population from 100,000 to roughly 3,700. Between 1900 and 1905, African American the community was segregated into smaller enclaves. With communities pushed to creek beds, railroad lines, and alleys near the downtown area, the African American community was effectively segregated and splintered. According to the US Census, illiteracy among non whites did drop substantially across the country from 1900 to 1940 from 44 percent to 11 percent. However in rural Alabama, illiteracy among Blacks by 1940 was still between 30 and 40 percent among sharecroppers and farm workers. With the conditions as they were, the Communist international decided to send organizers to the region.
In 1928, at the Sixth World Congress of the Communist International, an association of international communists, established the official line on the "Negro Question." Being that the region of the American South was dominated by cotton plantations and rich white elites despite a numerical black majority, the entire region would be defined as an "oppressed nation." The adopted resolution maintained that as an oppressed nation, African Americans had the right to self determination, (the control over political power as well as the economy,) and as such had the right to secede of the United States. In 1930, the resolution was further defined to account for the material differences between the North and South. The new resolution took the position that Northern Blacks sought integration and assimilation giving Blacks in the South the exclusive right to secession.
While it had been argued that South was impenetrable to radical politics and organizing, the Central Committee of the CPUSA chose Birmingham, the industrial center of the South, for the location of their headquarters for their newly establish District 17 chapter. This district encompassed, Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, Florida, Tennessee, and Mississippi. The first two full time organizers sent to Birmingham were Tom Johnson and Harry Jackson. Both Johnson and Jackson were veteran white Communists, and both had been active trade union organizers in the North. While Johnson had worked in Cleveland, Jackson had previously spent years as a longshoreman in San Francisco. Consequently in 1929, the Party opened an office in downtown Birmingham at 2117 ½ Second Ave. North. However, it was closed shortly after.
From 1928 to 1951, the Alabama Chapter CPUSA played its most important roles in terms of organizing and fighting against unemployment and the development of the Alabama Sharecroppers Union, a court case involving a group of falsely imprisoned Black youths known as the Scottsboro Case, and for basic civil rights such as voting, to sit on juries, as well as housing and employment equality. At the Seventh National Convention in 1930, the Party elected to focus their efforts campaign drives and organizing unemployed Black workers.
The fight against unemployment was a multifaceted struggle for jobs, monetary relief, and an end to evictions. Due to lack of jobs and unemployment, one of the most immediate result was mass evictions. The Party organized numerous mass actions and protests in an effort to organize and raise money to provide relief to starving workers. One protest leaflet read, "white and colored workers are being evicted from their homes and thrown out on the streets to shift for themselves. Gas and water is [sic] being cut off because the unemployed workers can not pay their bills." One Metal Workers Industrial League mass meeting was planned to organize unemployed steel workers and call for an end to evictions, immediate relief, free light and heat for the city's jobless, and to reaffirm their support for a Communist-sponsored social insurance bill that proposed minimum cash assistance of $25 per week to all unemployed. The protest drew over 2,500 people. However, it was postponed when Harry Jackson was detained by police. On December 16, 1930, an eighteen-year-old black Young Communist League (YCL) activist, Joe Burton, took leadership of a spontaneous protest demonstration of over 5,000 workers. Burton attempted to lead demonstrators in an action to storm the lobby of Hotel Morris and demand jobs or immediate relief, but police intervened and dispersed the protest.
The Party also took a leading role in organizing unemployment committees and councils that through direct action helped prevent evictions and restore utilities of poor and working families. As depression-era unemployment affected women and domestic workers tremendously, Black women took major roles in organizing and leadership. Led mostly by Black women, relief committees presented their demands directly to the welfare board on an individual basis. Additionally, the Party-based committees led struggles against evictions and foreclosures by a range of tactics from flooding landlords with postcards and letters, to direct confrontational reasoning. In the event a poor family lost access to utilities, activists and Party council members would use heavy gauged copper wires known as "jumpers" to "appropriate" electricity from public outlets or other homes.
In the 1930s, the Alabama Chapter CPUSA began organizing the poverty stricken rural Black sharecroppers. As cotton prices plummeted after the first World War, planters were forced to reduce acreage. With rising debts, when the stock market collapsed and cotton prices reached an all time low, small landholders were forced into tenancy and tenant's conditions deteriorated even worse. In the South, the most common form of tenancy was sharecropping. Propertyless workers paid their land owners with a portion of the crops they raised. Consequently, they were forced to raise the land owners' desired crop which meant they could not grow their own food. Because most landowners sold cotton, the sharecroppers were forced to grow cotton, and as prices dropped they went further and further into debt. All tools, animals, food, and cash advances were considered "furnishings" and deducted from the sharecropper’s portion of the crop with interest. Black sharecroppers lived in one or two room shacks, usually without running water. Most shacks were not equipped with sanitary facilities, and the day to day diet consisted of beans, molasses, and cornbread causing both sickness and malnutrition. Plagued with sickness, illiteracy, and extreme poverty, most sharecroppers were forced to beg for food and cash advances and or spent numerous days without eating. As a result, the Alabama CPUSA took a leading role in the administration and organizing of the Alabama Sharecroppers Union (ASU), and by 1932 the ASU had between six hundred and eight hundred members.
The ASU organized numerous demands. First, in the face of farm and mill owners' attempts to cut wages and suspend food advancements, the ASU called for the continuation of advances to sharecroppers. Secondly, the ASU demanded that sharecroppers have full autonomy and control over surplus crops to sell at market. In response to sharecroppers being required to purchase food from the land owners, the ASU demanded that croppers be given individual plots to grow their own food. Additionally, the ASU demanded that sharecroppers be paid in cash instead of food advances that many times plunged the croppers further in debt. For their children, the ASU demanded education. Before it was dissolved into the Farmers Union of Alabama, in 1936, the ASU had represented nearly 10,000 workers.
The Alabama CPUSA also played a leading role in organizing around a case that would be known as the "Scottsboro Case" in 1931. During the Jim Crow Era in the South, there were many cases of wrongful arrest, lynching, and trumped up trials. On March 25, 1931, a number of white and black youths were hopping trains, looking for work, when a fight broke out. The white hobos were thrown from the train and subsequently reported the event to the trainmaster. At the next stop, the police rounded up nine black youths and charged them with assault. When it was discovered that two white women were on the train, the police threatened the women with arrest if they did not testify that the nine Black youths had sexually assaulted them. The nine youths were then charged with sexual assault. The all-white jury convicted the group of youths, and all except the youngest, who was twelve years old, were sentenced to death.
The International Labor Defense organization ran by CPUSA took charge of the case from there, and organized a two-pronged battle against the conviction free of charge. While a legal defense team worked to successfully overthrow the case in court, the streets were flooded with protests, demonstrations, and struggle. On April 12 and 13, mass demonstrations were held in Cleveland and New York City. In Cleveland, over thirteen thousand people attended, while in NYC, over twenty thousand protesters took to the streets to condemn the "Scottsboro Frame-up." Subsequently, after numerous court battles and a retrial, all but one member were freed.
The Alabama Chapter of CPUSA was subjected to numerous attacks by both the Ku Klux Klan as well as police forces including bombings, lynchings, vigilantism, and murder. Just a few weeks after opening their office in Birmingham, on March 23, 1930, the ACPUSA held a meeting attended by over two hundred people, mostly Black. While the meeting went without incident, several days later, the home of James Giglio, a metal worker and organizer for the Party, was firebombed.
During their first summer in Birmingham, seven hundred Black workers took to the streets with about one hundred white workers gathering in Capitol Park to demand unemployment relief as well as to protest the arrests of six Communist organizers. As the demonstrators marched to Chest headquarters, they were met with over one hundred police officers and disbanded. Consequently, city commissioner Jimmie Jones conducted a full scale investigation. As a result, a public ordinance against "criminal anarchy," was passed unanimously by the city commission on June 17, 1930. The ordinance specifically attacked anyone associating with the Communist Party, the printing of Communist or radical agitation. Violation of the ordinance was punishable by $100 and up to 180 days in jail. This prompted police to conduct raids and constant harassment, which resulted in several convictions.
In response to the Party's leadership in a wave of strikes in 1934, and their large demonstrations on International Workers' Day (May Day), under the orders from Birmingham police Chied E.L Hollums, the police formed a squad known as "The Red Squad," and conducted a mass wave of retaliatory raids. Nearly a dozen Communists were arrested on various charges from vagrancy to criminal anarchy. Throughout the summer, police raids, repression, and mass arrests continued. However, the fines were typically quickly paid, the charges dropped or reduced, and, in the end, were not effective in stopping the Party from organizing. In fact, in many ways, the heightened police repression only fueled the Party, gave them national attention, and even piqued the interests of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU).
In 1931, after a spontaneous uprising of sharecroppers in Arkansas, the Alabama CPUSA began extensive organizing campaigns around local farmers. By this time the ASU and Croppers Farm Workers Union (CFWU) had been organizing sharecroppers for years, and had militantly secured a few local victories with about eight hundred members. However, in Camp Hill, Alabama, after a meeting to discuss the Scottsboro case, the CFWU was raided by local organized deputized vigilantes. During the raid both women and men were beaten before the group left and regrouped at the main organizer, Tommy Gray’s, home assaulting his entire family, including his wife who suffered a fractured skull. The mob was only stopped when Tommy’s brother Ralph Gray ran into the house armed, preventing fatal consequences. At a subsequent meeting, Sherriff Young, police Chief JM Wilson, and his deputy AJ Thomson showed up and a confrontation followed. While accounts differ as to the sequence of events, the encounter ended with a heated argument between Ralph Gray and the chief that resulted with each being shot. In response a vigilante mob was organized and deputized by Chief Wilson that stormed Gray’s home, and shot Gray in an execution by putting a pistol in his mouth. The mob then burned the home to the ground and dumped Gray’s body on the steps of the Dadeville courthouse.
As a result of the incident, thirty to fifty-five Black men were arrested, nine of which were under eighteen. The charges ranged from conspiracy to murder, to carrying a concealed weapon, to assault. With many of the CFWU organizers in jail and relations deteriorating, on August 6, 1931, the last remnants of the CFWU regrouped as the Share Croppers Union (SCU). Harry Hirsch, using the pseudonym "Harry Simms," played a liaison role between the Party leadership and the SCU. As the SCU grew in 1931 to 591 members, Tommy Gray’s daughter Eula Gray played a leading role in both the Young Communist League (YCL) as well as the SCU.
In 1934, The Ku Klux Klan saw a massive increase in membership in Northern Alabama. Over forty new Klaverns were organized. Additionally, a local fascist movement began organizing in conjunction with the Klan. The fascists ran a publication known as the Alabama Black Shirt. By the end of 1934, extrajudicial acts of vigilante violence and terrorism against Black workers, Communists, and radical circles increased significantly. Many times, violence, vigilantism, and lynching were the result of Klan and police alliances. One Communist, Clyde Johnson, survived at least three assassination attempts. Steve Simmons, a Black Communist, only barely survived an attempted lynching by the Klan. Saul Davis, another Black Communist, was kidnaped, stripped, and beaten by flogging for hours.
Turkey hosts 139 embassies in Ankara. Several other countries have ambassadors accredited to Turkey, with most being resident in Berlin or Brussels. This listing excludes honorary consulates.
European Union (Delegation)
Republic of China (Taiwan) (Taipei Economic and Cultural Mission in Ankara)
Somaliland (Representative Office)
Bashkortostan (Russia) (Foreign Economic Relations Office)
United States (Consulate)
Bulgaria (Consular Office)
Australia (Consulate)
Greece (Consulate)
United States (State Department branch)
Azerbaijan (Consular Mission)
Resident in Berlin, Germany
Resident in Brussels, Belgium
Resident in Cairo, Egypt
Resident in Canberra, Australia
Resident in New York City, United States
Resident in Paris, France
Resident in Rome, Italy
Resident in Switzerland
Other resident cities
Foreign relations of Turkey
List of diplomatic missions of Turkey
Visa requirements for Turkish citizens
Michaeloplia montana is a species of beetle of the family Scarabaeidae. It is found in Madagascar.
Adults reach a length of about 9–11 mm (0.35–0.43 in). They have a rather elongated body. The upper surface is dark brown and is fairly densely covered with hairs. The pronotum is covered with fine scales.
Haplothrix is a genus of longhorn beetles of the subfamily Lamiinae, containing the following species:
Haplothrix amicator (Gahan, 1888)
Haplothrix andamanicus (Breuning, 1979)
Haplothrix andrewesi Breuning, 1935
Haplothrix blairi Breuning, 1935
Haplothrix fouqueti (Pic, 1932)
Haplothrix griseatus (Gahan, 1888)
Haplothrix paramicator Breuning, 1965
Haplothrix pulcher (Hüdepohl, 1998)
Haplothrix rivulosus (Gahan, 1888)
Haplothrix simplex Gahan, 1888
Haplothrix strandi Breuning, 1935
"Sunrise" is a song by English musical group Simply Red. It was released on 17 March 2003 as the first single from their eighth studio album, Home (2003), as well as the first single from frontman Mick Hucknall's new record label, simplyred.com. Heavily based on Hall & Oates' 1981 song "I Can't Go for That (No Can Do)", "Sunrise" peaked at number seven on the UK Singles Chart, number three in Canada, and number one on the US Billboard Dance Club Play chart.
The song contains samples of Hall & Oates's 1981 hit "I Can't Go for That (No Can Do)" and incorporates some of its lyrics.
David Jeffries of AllMusic panned the track, calling it the worst on its parent album. He added: "Hall & Oates get sampled and credited, but the vocal hook from Ace's "How Long" gets lifted without acknowledgment. It sounds as shoddy as one of the song-combining "mash-up" bootlegs that swept through the U.K., and could be a cover-up for Hucknall's lack of songwriting ideas."
The video for "Sunrise" was shot on the outskirts of Rio de Janeiro. It was filmed in February 2003 at the Das Canoas house designed by the Brazilian architect Oscar Niemeyer for himself, which has since been open to the public.
Credits are lifted from the Home album booklet.
Recorded at Metropolis Studios (London, England)
Mick Hucknall – words, music, original version production
Daryl Hall – words, music ("I Can't Go for That (No Can Do)")
John Oates – words, music ("I Can't Go for That (No Can Do)")
Sara Allen – words, music ("I Can't Go for That (No Can Do)")
Andy Wright – production, mixing
Gota Yashiki – original version production
List of Billboard number-one dance singles of 2003
Lyrics of this song
Digital supply chain security refers to efforts to enhance cyber security within the supply chain. It is a subset of supply chain security and is focused on the management of cyber security requirements for information technology systems, software and networks, which are driven by threats such as cyber-terrorism, malware, data theft and the advanced persistent threat (APT). Typical supply chain cyber security activities for minimizing risks include buying only from trusted vendors, disconnecting critical machines from outside networks, and educating users on the threats and protective measures they can take.
The acting deputy undersecretary for the National Protection and Programs Directorate for the United States Department of Homeland Security, Greg Schaffer, stated at a hearing that he is aware that there are instances where malware has been found on imported electronic and computer devices sold within the United States.
Network or computer hardware that is delivered with malware installed on it already.
Malware that is inserted into software or hardware (by various means)
Vulnerabilities in software applications and networks within the supply chain that are discovered by malicious hackers
Counterfeit computer hardware
Comprehensive National Cyber Initiative
Defense Procurement Regulations: Noted in section 806 of the National Defense Authorization Act
International Strategy for Cyberspace: White House lays out for the first time the U.S.’s vision for a secure and open Internet. The strategy outlines three main themes: diplomacy, development and defense.
Diplomacy: The strategy sets out to “promote an open, interoperable, secure and reliable information and communication infrastructure” by establishing norms of acceptable state behavior built through consensus among nations.
Development: Through this strategy the government seeks to “facilitate cybersecurity capacity-building abroad, bilaterally and through multilateral organizations.” The objective is to protect the global IT infrastructure and to build closer international partnerships to sustain open and secure networks.
Defense: The strategy calls out that the government “will ensure that the risks associated with attacking or exploiting our networks vastly outweigh the potential benefits” and calls for all nations to investigate, apprehend and prosecute criminals and non-state actors who intrude and disrupt network systems.
Common Criteria offers with Evaluation Assurance Level(EAL) 4 an opportunity to evaluate all relevant aspects of the digital supply chain security like the product, the development environment, IT systems security, the processes in human resource, physical security and with the module ALC_FLR.3 (Systematic Flaw Remediation) also security update processes and methods even by physical site visits. EAL 4 is mutually recognized in countries that signed the SOGIS-MRA and up to ELA 2 in countries the signed the CCRA but including ALC_FRL.3.
Russia: Russia has had non-disclosed functionality certification requirements for several years and has recently initiated the National Software Platform effort based on open-source software. This reflects the apparent desire for national autonomy, reducing dependence on foreign suppliers.
India: Recognition of supply chain risk in its draft National Cybersecurity Strategy. Rather than targeting specific products for exclusion, it is considering Indigenous Innovation policies, giving preferences to domestic ITC suppliers in order to create a robust, globally competitive national presence in the sector.
China: Deriving from goals in the 11th Five Year Plan (2006–2010), China introduced and pursued a mix of security-focused and aggressive Indigenous Innovation policies. China is requiring an indigenous innovation product catalog be used for its government procurement and implementing a Multi-level Protection Scheme (MLPS) which requires (among other things) product developers and manufacturers to be Chinese citizens or legal persons, and product core technology and key components must have independent Chinese or indigenous intellectual property rights.
SLSA (Supply-chain Levels for Software Artifacts) is an end-to-end framework for ensuring the integrity of software artifacts throughout the software supply chain. The requirements are inspired by Google’s internal "Binary Authorization for Borg" that has been in use for the past 8+ years and that is mandatory for all of Google's production workloads. The goal of SLSA is to improve the state of the industry, particularly open source, to defend against the most pressing integrity threats. With SLSA, consumers can make informed choices about the security posture of the software they consume.
Financial Sector Information Sharing and Analysis Center
International Strategy for Cyberspace (from the White House)
SafeCode Whitepaper Archived 2013-10-21 at the Wayback Machine
Trusted Technology Forum and the Open Trusted Technology Provider Standard (O-TTPS) Archived 2012-01-03 at the Wayback Machine
Cyber Supply Chain Security Solution
Malware Implants in Firmware
Supply Chain in the Software Era
INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY SUPPLY CHAIN RISK MANAGEMENT TASK FORCE: INTERIM REPORT
Supply chain risk management
Supply chain security
Trustworthy computing
Sam or Samuel Simmon[d]s may refer to:
Sam Simmons (American football) (born 1979), former NFL and AFL wide receiver
Sam Simmons (comedian) (born 1977), Australian comedian
Sam Simmonds (film editor), British film editor
Sam Simmonds (rugby union) (born 1994), English rugby union player
Samuel Simmons (printer) (1640–1687), English printer
Samuel Simmons (actor) (1777?–1819), English actor
Samuel Foart Simmons (1750–1813), British physician
Samuel Simons, Connecticut politician
Francisco Torrão Pires (born 8 March 1931) known as Francisco Pires, is a former Portuguese footballer who played as a defender.
Pires at EU-Football.info (archived)
Pires at WorldFootball.net
Athens is a town in Mercer County, West Virginia, United States. The population was 944 at the 2020 census. It is part of the Bluefield micropolitan area which has a population of 107,578. Athens is the home of Concord University.
The community was named Concord; however, in 1896 another post office in Concord, Hampshire County, West Virginia was established and the town's name was changed to Athens after the Greek city and center of learning. The community incorporated as a town on August 6, 1906.
Located near Athens is the Col. William Henderson French House, listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1976.
The town is situated on a bluff above Laurel Creek, a tributary of the Bluestone River. The campus of Concord University lies at the eastern end of town. West Virginia Route 20 (State Street) traverses Athens, connecting the town with Princeton to the southwest and the rural towns along New River to the northeast.
According to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of 0.39 square miles (1.01 km2), all land.
The climate in this area has mild differences between highs and lows, and there is adequate rainfall year-round. According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Athens has a marine west coast climate, abbreviated "Cfb" on climate maps.
As of the census of 2010, there were 1,048 people, 347 households, and 182 families living in the town. The population density was 2,687.2 inhabitants per square mile (1,037.5/km2). There were 408 housing units at an average density of 1,046.2 per square mile (403.9/km2). The racial makeup of the town was 91.1% White, 5.6% African American, 0.1% Native American, 2.1% Asian, 0.2% from other races, and 0.9% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.4% of the population.
There were 347 households, of which 21.6% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 41.8% were married couples living together, 8.6% had a female householder with no husband present, 2.0% had a male householder with no wife present, and 47.6% were non-families. 34.6% of all households were made up of individuals, and 9.8% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.13 and the average family size was 2.76.
The median age in the town was 23.1 years. 11.5% of residents were under the age of 18; 43.7% were between the ages of 18 and 24; 16% were from 25 to 44; 18.4% were from 45 to 64; and 10.3% were 65 years of age or older. The gender makeup of the town was 48.2% male and 51.8% female.
As of the census of 2000, there were 1,102 people, 359 households, and 199 families living in the town. The population density was 2,549.5 inhabitants per square mile (989.5/km2). There were 414 housing units at an average density of 957.8 per square mile (371.7/km2). The racial makeup of the town was 92.29% White, 4.81% African American, 0.18% Native American, 1.54% Asian, 0.09% Pacific Islander, and 1.09% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.91% of the population.
There were 359 households, out of which 20.3% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 43.7% were married couples living together, 10.0% had a female householder with no husband present, and 44.3% were non-families. 32.9% of all households were made up of individuals, and 14.8% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.14 and the average family size was 2.74.
In the town, the population was spread out, with 12.7% under the age of 18, 40.1% from 18 to 24, 17.4% from 25 to 44, 17.4% from 45 to 64, and 12.3% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 24 years. For every 100 females, there were 147.6 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 156.5 males.
The median income for a household in the town was $27,260, and the median income for a family was $45,694. Males had a median income of $28,214 versus $20,268 for females. The per capita income for the town was $13,553. About 9.7% of families and 20.7% of the population were below the poverty line, including 17.1% of those under age 18 and 9.6% of those age 65 or over.
Don Caruth, West Virginia politician
Official site Archived July 27, 2017, at the Wayback Machine
Thallium(I) oxide is the inorganic compound of thallium and oxygen with the formula Tl2O in which thallium is in its +1 oxidation state. It is black and produces a basic yellow solution of thallium(I) hydroxide (TlOH) when dissolved in water. It is formed by heating solid TlOH or Tl2CO3 in the absence of air. Thallium oxide is used to make special high refractive index glass. Thallium oxide is a component of several high temperature superconductors. Thallium(I) oxide reacts with acids to make thallium(I) salts.
Tl2O adopts the anti-cadmium iodide structure in the solid state. In this way, the Tl(I) centers are pyramidal and the oxide centers are octahedral.
Thallium(I) oxide, like all thallium compounds, is highly toxic.
Thallium(I) oxide can be produced by decomposition of thallium(I) hydroxide at 100 °C or by heating thallium(III) oxide in the absence of air to 700 °C.
2 TlOH → Tl2O + H2O
Tl2O3 → Tl2O + O2
U.S. Geological Survey – Thallium Archived 2017-04-29 at the Wayback Machine
Extract from The Columbia Encyclopedia
Bishop Seabury Academy is a private, co-educational, Episcopal middle school and high school (grades 6–12) in Lawrence, Kansas. The school is accredited by ISACS (Independent Schools Association of the Central States) and is a member of KSHSAA. It is named for Samuel Seabury, first bishop of the Episcopal Church in the United States and a British Loyalist during the American Revolution. It is currently one of two private middle/high schools in Lawrence.
Bishop Seabury Academy was founded in 1997. The Academy opened with about 32 students at 1411 E. 1850 Road, east of Lawrence in what used to be the Kaw Valley School. Kris Pueschel was the head of school until February 2001. Chris Carter was installed as the new head of school in the 2001–02 school year. In the spring of 2002, Brendan Mark became the school's first graduate.
In 2003, the school purchased the Alvamar Raquetball & Tennis Club and renovated the space to create a new campus that opened its doors on August 20 to 113 students. In December 2006, the school announced a $1.5 million 10th Anniversary Capital Campaign to add Reese Hall, a building to house fine arts and languages.
In 2007, Carter resigned and Don Schawang, who had taught at the school since 2000, was appointed Headmaster. In 2012, with the addition of a 6th grade, the school raised $1.18 million to expand the campus and add a FEMA emergency shelter. In 2016, the Academy was named #1 Private School in Kansas by NICHE, and the school has retained that position for almost every year since.
In 2018, the student population had nearly doubled since moving to the Clinton Parkway campus in 2003, and the school launched a new capital campaign to fund its most significant campus expansion, which was completed for fall of 2020.
DESO, better known as D.E.S. Oss, is a football club from Oss, Netherlands. Since 2018, the first squad plays in the Sunday Vijfde Klassen.
The club is mostly known because one of the best players from the region, former Vitesse player Michel Gielis -who at the time was in the picture of Leeds United, AS Fiorentina and Antwerp FC-, an intersexual, was the main factor in the rise of the club to finally end up in the highest Dutch amateur league in 2016
During the years 2015–17, DESO peaked in the Hoofdklasse. After a fight broke out in the club cafeteria in the 2017–18 season, it withdrew the first squad from the Eerste Klasse and most other teams from their competitions. Next season, the unlisted DESO teams rejoined at the lowest levels.
Catocala jair, the Jair underwing or Barrens underwing, is a moth of the family Erebidae. The species was first described by Strecker in 1897. It is found from the Pine Barrens of New Jersey, in the coastal plain in Bladen County, North Carolina and in the northern half of Florida.
The wingspan is 35–40 mm. Adults are on wing from May to June. There is probably one generation per year.
The larvae feed on Quercus.
Species info Archived 2011-10-07 at the Wayback Machine
